

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
ARCANE UPDATES 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material 
here uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s 
Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents six subclasses revised 
after their last appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
Arcane Archer (Fighter), Monk (Tattooed 
Warrior), Conjurer (Wizard), Enchanter 
(Wizard), Necromancer (Wizard), and 
Transmuter (Wizard). 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and 
feedback. The options here are experimental and 
in draft form. They aren’t officially part of the 
game. Your feedback will help determine whether 
we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try 
out this material in play. To play with this material, 
you may either incorporate it into your campaign 
or run one or more special playtest sessions. For 
such a session, you may create an adventure of 
your own or use a short adventure from a source 
like Quests from the Infinite Staircase. 
 Power Level. The character options you read 
here might be more or less powerful than options 
in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable 
level before publication. This means an option 
could be more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us 
feedback on this material is in the survey we’ll 
release on D&D Beyond. If we make this material 
official, it will be refined based on your feedback, 
and then it will appear in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way 
you can help shape the future of D&D! 
SUBCLASSES 
This section presents the following subclasses: 
Arcane Archer, Tattooed Warrior, Conjurer, 
Enchanter, Necromancer, and Transmuter. 
ARCANE ARCHER (FIGHTER) 
Deploy Magical Effects Through Enchanted 
Ammunition 
An Arcane Archer studies a unique elven method 
of archery that weaves magic into attacks to 
produce supernatural effects. The first Arcane 
Archers stood watch over their communities and 
used magic-infused arrows to defeat monsters 
and invaders. Over the centuries, other species 
have learned this method of blending magical 
aptitude with archery. These archers have 
broadened this method’s application to ranged 
weapons of many kinds and to aspects of 
adventuring life outside of combat. 
DESIGN NOTE: ARCANE ARCHER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
last appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Curving Shot has been revised to use the same 
ammunition but a new attack roll. 
• Magical Ammunition is a new feature that 
grants magical effects to your ammunition that 
can be used outside of combat. 
• Ever-Ready Shot is now available at a later level 
but always regains one expended Arcane Shot 
Die. 
• Arcane Burst is a new feature that grants an 
additional effect to Indomitable. 
• Masterful Shots has been redesigned and now 
allows you to reposition and attack. 
  


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
LEVEL 3: ARCANE ARCHER LORE 
You learn magical theory and secrets of nature, 
granting you the following benefits. 
 Cantrip. You know either the Druidcraft or 
Prestidigitation cantrip. Intelligence is your 
spellcasting ability for it. 
 Skills. You gain proficiency in the Arcana and 
Nature skills. If you already have one of these 
proficiencies, you instead gain proficiency in a 
different skill of your choice (or with two other 
skills if you have both). 
LEVEL 3: ARCANE SHOT 
You learn to unleash special magical effects with 
your shots. 
 Arcane Shot Options. You learn two Arcane 
Shot options of your choice from the “Arcane 
Shot Options” section later in this subclass’s 
description. 
 You learn an additional Arcane Shot option of 
your choice when you reach Fighter levels 7, 10, 
15, and 18. Each time you learn a new Arcane 
Shot option, you can also replace one option you 
know with a different one. 
 Using Arcane Shot. Once per turn when you 
make a ranged attack using a weapon with the 
Ammunition property, you can apply one of your 
Arcane Shot options to that attack. You decide to 
use the option when you hit a creature and deal 
damage to it unless the option doesn’t involve an 
attack roll. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once). You regain all expended uses when you 
finish a Short or Long Rest. 
 Arcane Shot Die. Arcane Shot options refer to 
your Arcane Shot Die. Your Arcane Shot Die is a 
d6. 
 Saving Throws. If an Arcane Shot option 
requires a saving throw, the DC equals 8 plus 
your Intelligence modifier and Proficiency 
Bonus. 
 At Higher Levels. Your Arcane Shot Die 
changes when you reach certain Fighter levels. 
The die becomes a d8 at level 10, a d10 at level 
15, and a d12 at level 18. 
LEVEL 7: CURVING SHOT 
You learn how to direct an errant shot toward a 
new target. If you make an attack roll with a 
weapon with the Ammunition property and 
miss, you can cause the shot to ricochet toward a 
new target as a Bonus Action immediately after 
the attack misses. The new target must be a 
creature you can see within the weapon’s range 
and within 60 feet of the attack’s original target. 
Make an attack roll against the new target. 
LEVEL 7: MAGICAL AMMUNITION 
You learn to imbue your ammunition with 
magical properties. As a Magic action, you can 
imbue a piece of nonmagical ammunition with 
one of the following magical properties and fire 
it at a solid surface you can see within the 
weapon’s range. On a hit, the ammunition’s effect 
activates, and the ammunition attaches to the 
surface it hit for the duration of the effect; when 
the effect ends, the ammunition is destroyed. 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. You can 
also restore your use of this feature by 
expending a use of your Second Wind (no action 
required). 
 Darkening Shot. Magical shadows fill a 15-
foot Emanation originating from the ammunition 
for 1 minute. Nonmagical flames in the 
Emanation are extinguished, and creatures in the 
Emanation have a –5 penalty to Wisdom 
(Perception) checks and Passive Perception. 
 Unlocking Shot. A burst of magic fills a 15-foot 
Emanation originating from the ammunition. A 
loud knock, audible up to 300 feet away, also 
emits from the ammunition. Any object in the 
Emanation that is held shut by a mundane lock 
or that is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, 
unstuck, or unbarred. If the object has multiple 
locks, only one of them is unlocked. 
 Vine Shot. A 60-foot-long vine grows from the 
ammunition. You and other creatures can then 
climb it. The vine withers away after 10 minutes. 
LEVEL 10: EVER-READY SHOT 
When you roll Initiative, you can regain one 
expended use of Arcane Shot. 
LEVEL 15: ARCANE BURST 
You can push creatures away from you with your 
arcane mastery. When you use Indomitable, each 
creature of your choice in a 10-foot Emanation 
originating from you must succeed on a Strength 
saving throw against your Arcane Shot DC or be 
pushed up to 20 feet straight away from you. 
  


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
LEVEL 18: MASTERFUL SHOTS 
You employ agility in your sharpshooting When 
a creature you can see misses you with an attack 
roll, you can take a Reaction to move up to half 
your Speed away from the attacker without 
provoking Opportunity Attacks. You can then 
make a ranged attack roll against the attacker as 
part of this Reaction if the attacker is within the 
weapon’s range. 
ARCANE SHOT OPTIONS 
The Arcane Shot options are presented here in 
alphabetical order. 
 Banishing Shot. Your ammunition temporarily 
sequesters your target in a harmless demiplane. 
The creature you hit takes additional Psychic 
damage equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die 
and must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or 
be banished. While banished, the creature has 
the Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0. At 
the end of its next turn, the target reappears in 
the space it left or, if that space is occupied, in 
the nearest unoccupied space. 
 Beguiling Shot. Your ammunition beguiles 
your target. The creature you hit takes additional 
Psychic damage equal to two rolls of your Arcane 
Shot Die and must succeed on a Wisdom saving 
throw or have the Charmed condition until the 
start of your next turn, treating either you or one 
of your allies within 30 feet of the target (your 
choice) as the charmer. The Charmed condition 
ends early if the charmer attacks the target, 
deals damage to it, or forces it to make a saving 
throw. 
 Bursting Shot. You imbue your ammunition 
with explosive force energy. Immediately after 
you deal damage to the creature, your target and 
each creature within a 10-foot Emanation 
originating from the target take Force damage 
equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot Die. 
 Enfeebling Shot. Your ammunition saps your 
target’s strength. The creature you hit takes 
additional Necrotic damage equal to two rolls of 
your Arcane Shot Die. The target must also 
succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have 
the Poisoned condition until the end of its next 
turn. Whenever a target Poisoned in this way 
hits with an attack roll, it subtracts an amount 
equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die from 
the total damage of that attack. 
 Grasping Shot. Your ammunition creates 
clutching brambles around your target. The 
creature you hit takes additional Slashing 
damage equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die 
and must succeed on a Strength saving throw or 
have the Restrained condition for 1 minute or 
until you use this option again. The target or a 
creature within reach of it can take an action to 
make a Strength (Athletics) check against your 
Arcane Shot DC, removing the brambles and 
ending the Restrained condition on the target on 
a successful check. 
 Piercing Shot. You give your ammunition an 
ethereal quality. When you use this option, you 
don’t make an attack roll for the attack. Instead, 
the ammunition shoots forward in a 30-foot Line 
that is 1 foot wide, originating from you, then 
vanishes. The Line ignores cover, as the 
ammunition phases through solid objects. Each 
creature in the Line must make a Dexterity 
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 
damage as if it were hit plus additional Piercing 
damage equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot 
Die. On a successful save, a creature takes half as 
much damage. 
 Seeking Shot. Your ammunition can seek out a 
target. When you use this option, you don’t make 
an attack roll for the attack. Instead, choose one 
creature you have seen in the last minute. The 
ammunition flies toward that creature, moving 
around corners if necessary and ignoring Half 
Cover and Three-Quarters Cover. If the target is 
within your weapon’s long range, the target 
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target takes damage as if it were hit 
plus additional Force damage equal to two rolls 
of your Arcane Shot Die, and you learn the 
target’s current location. On a successful save, 
the target takes half as much damage only. If the 
target is beyond your weapon’s long range, the 
ammunition disappears after traveling as far as 
it can. 
 Shadow Shot. Your ammunition occludes your 
foe’s vision with shadows. The creature you hit 
takes additional Psychic damage equal to one 
roll of your Arcane Shot Die, and it must succeed 
on a Wisdom saving throw or have the Blinded 
condition until the end of its next turn. 
  


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
TATTOOED WARRIOR (MONK) 
Enhance Martial Arts with Your Magic Tattoos 
Drawing from body-marking traditions from 
across the multiverse, Tattooed Warriors can use 
arcane power imbued in their magic tattoos. 
These Monks gain tattoos as they grow in martial 
prowess and insight. Tattooed Warriors can 
reshape their tattoos to access a suite of physical 
and magical effects. 
DESIGN NOTE: TATTOOED WARRIOR UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
last appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• The Tattooed Warrior has been redesigned. With 
some exceptions, the tattoos now focus on 
additional abilities instead of spells. 
• Beast Tattoos still grant a cantrip, but now each 
option provides a benefit that isn’t tied to a level 
1 spell. 
• Celestial Tattoo has been redesigned to provide 
uses of Focus Points outside of combat. 
• Nature Tattoo has been condensed to provide 
Damage Resistance to a small suite of choices 
that can change. 
• Monster Tattoos has been redesigned with new 
options. 
LEVEL 3: MAGIC TATTOOS 
You gain the magic tattoos described by other 
features of this subclass. The tattoos appear on 
your body wherever you wish. Damage or injury 
doesn’t impair your magic tattoos’ function. A 
magic tattoo can look like a brand, scarification, 
a birthmark, patterns of scales, or any other 
cosmetic alteration. 
 If a tattoo’s effect requires a saving throw, the 
DC equals 8 plus your Wisdom modifier plus 
your Proficiency Bonus. Your spellcasting ability 
for spells granted by a tattoo is Wisdom. 
 Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can 
reshape one of your magic tattoos, changing the 
option you chose from one list to another option 
on the same list. 
LEVEL 3: BEAST TATTOOS  
You gain two animal tattoos. Choose two tattoos 
from the following options. 
 Bat. You know the Dancing Lights cantrip. You 
also gain Blindsight with a range of 10 feet. 
 Butterfly. You know the Light cantrip. When 
you make a High Jump, you can use your 
Dexterity modifier instead of your Strength 
modifier to determine how high you can jump. 
 Crane. You know the Guidance cantrip. When 
you miss a creature with an attack granted by 
your Flurry of Blows, you have Advantage on 
your next attack roll against that creature before 
the end of your next turn. 
 Horse. You know the Message cantrip. When 
you expend 1 Focus Point to use Step of the 
Wind, your Speed increases by 10 feet until the 
start of your next turn. 
 Tortoise. You know the Spare the Dying 
cantrip. When you expend 1 Focus Point to use 
Patient Defense, you have a +1 bonus to AC until 
the start of your next turn. 
LEVEL 6: CELESTIAL TATTOO 
You gain an additional magic tattoo depicting a 
celestial phenomenon. Choose a tattoo from the 
following options. 
 Comet. When you take the Search action, you 
can expend 1 Focus Point to roll your Martial 
Arts die and add the number rolled to the 
Wisdom check. 
 Eclipse. When you take the Hide action, you 
can expend 1 Focus Point to roll your Martial 
Arts die and add the number rolled to the 
Dexterity (Stealth) check. 
 Sunburst. When you take the Study action, you 
can expend 1 Focus Point to roll your Martial 
Arts die and add the number rolled to the 
Intelligence check. 
LEVEL 11: NATURE TATTOO  
You gain an additional magic tattoo depicting a 
natural feature. Choose a tattoo from the 
following options. 
 Sea Storm. You gain Resistance to one of the 
following damage types of your choice: Cold, 
Lightning, or Thunder. Whenever you finish a 
Short or Long Rest, or use your Uncanny 
Metabolism feature, you can change this choice. 
 Volcano. You gain Resistance to one of the 
following damage types of your choice: Acid, 
Fire, or Poison. Whenever you finish a Short or 
Long Rest, or use your Uncanny Metabolism 
feature, you can change this choice. 
  


=== PAGE 5 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
LEVEL 17: MONSTER TATTOO  
You gain a magic tattoo depicting a mighty 
creature. Choose a tattoo from the following 
options. 
 Beholder. At the start of your turn, you can 
expend 1 Focus Point to gain a Fly Speed equal to 
your Speed for 10 minutes. While you have this 
Fly Speed, you can hover. 
 Additionally, as a Magic action, you can expend 
1 Focus Point to fire four rays from your eyes. 
You can fire them at one target you can see 
within 120 feet or at several. Make a ranged spell 
attack for each ray, using Wisdom as your 
spellcasting ability. On a hit, the attack deals 
Force damage equal to one roll of your Martial 
Arts die plus your Wisdom modifier. 
 Chromatic Dragon. When you take the Attack 
action on your turn, you can expend 1 Focus 
Point to replace one of your attacks with an 
exhalation of magical energy in a 30-foot Cone. 
Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, 
Lightning, or Poison. Each creature in that area 
makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, 
a creature takes damage of the chosen type equal 
to two rolls of your Martial Arts die plus your 
Wisdom modifier. On a successful save, a 
creature takes half as much damage. 
 Displacer Beast. When you expend a Focus 
Point to use Flurry of Blows or Step of the Wind, 
you can expend 1 Focus Point to cast the Mirror 
Image spell as part of that Bonus Action. 
 Troll. At the start of each of your turns, you 
regain Hit Points equal to 5 plus your Wisdom 
modifier if you are Bloodied and have at least 1 
Hit Point. Any severed body part regrows after 
you finish a Short or Long Rest. 
CONJURER (WIZARD) 
Step Across Space and Call Creatures from Thin 
Air 
You consider distance and matter to be flexible 
guidelines rather than physical laws. Conjurers 
harness the power of magic that moves 
creatures instantly through space and summons 
creatures to fight on their behalf. 
DESIGN NOTE: CONJURER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Benign Transposition is now a Bonus Action and 
can be used more often. 
• Durable Summons now gives the summoned 
creature Resistance to multiple damage types 
while it has Temporary Hit Points. 
• Splintered Summons is a new feature that allows 
you to summon a second creature when you cast 
one of the summoning spells listed. 
LEVEL 3: BENIGN TRANSPOSITION 
As a Bonus Action, you teleport up to 30 feet to 
an unoccupied space that you can see. 
Alternatively, you can choose a space within 
range that is occupied by a Medium or smaller 
creature. If that creature is willing, you both 
teleport, swapping places. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 3: CONJURATION SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Conjuration 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Conjuration school to your 
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. 
LEVEL 6: DISTANT TRANSPOSITION 
The range of your Benign Transposition feature 
increases to 60 feet. Additionally, you now 
regain all expended uses of it when you finish a 
Short or Long Rest. 


=== PAGE 6 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 6 
 LEVEL 6: DURABLE SUMMONS 
When you cast a Conjuration spell to summon or 
create a creature using a spell slot, that creature 
gains Temporary Hit Points equal to twice your 
Wizard level when it first appears. While it has 
these Temporary Hit Points, the creature has 
Resistance to every damage type except Force, 
Necrotic, Psychic, and Radiant. 
LEVEL 10: FOCUSED CONJURATION 
Taking damage can’t break your Concentration 
on Conjuration spells. 
LEVEL 14: SPLINTERED SUMMONS 
When you cast Summon Aberration, Summon 
Construct, Summon Dragon, Summon Elemental, 
or Summon Fey using a spell slot, you can modify 
the spell to summon two creatures with the spell 
instead of one. Each creature is of the same kind, 
uses the stat block and rules denoted by the 
spell, and manifests in a different unoccupied 
space of your choice within the spell’s range, but 
the summoned creatures’ Hit Points are halved. 
If you lose Concentration on the spell, both 
creatures disappear. 
 Once you use this feature to modify a spell in 
this way, you must finish a Long Rest before you 
do so again. You can also restore your use of it by 
expending a level 5+ spell slot (no action 
required). 
ENCHANTER (WIZARD) 
Entrance and Beguile Others 
Your magic clouds or captivates minds. Some 
Enchanters use their abilities to encourage peace 
and soften cruelty, while others use their mind-
altering magic for selfish ends. Many Enchanters 
fall somewhere in between. 
DESIGN NOTE: ENCHANTER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the 2014 Player’s Handbook: 
• Hypnotic Presence replaces Vexing Movement 
and has been redesigned to use Concentration, 
freeing up your actions on subsequent turns. 
• Split Enchantment is available at an earlier level. 
• Instinctive Charm returns and is redesigned to 
turn a hit against you into a miss, with the 
potential to redirect the attack at a new target. 
• Alter Memories returns and has been 
redesigned to allow Modify Memory to target 
multiple creatures. 
LEVEL 3: ENCHANTING CONVERSATIONALIST 
You gain proficiency in one of the following skills 
of your choice: Deception, Intimidation, or 
Persuasion. 
 In addition, when you make an ability check 
with the chosen skill, you gain a bonus to the 
check equal to your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum of +1). 
LEVEL 3: ENCHANTMENT SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Enchantment 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Enchantment school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots. 
LEVEL 3: HYPNOTIC PRESENCE 
Your charming words and enchanting gaze can 
enthrall another creature. As a Magic action, 
choose one creature that you can see within 10 
feet of yourself. If the target can see or hear you, 
it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
against your spell save DC or have the Charmed 
condition for 1 minute or until your 
Concentration ends, the target is more than 10 
feet away from you, the target can neither see 


=== PAGE 7 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 7 
nor hear you, or the target takes damage. While 
Charmed in this way, the target has the 
Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0. 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore 
your use of it by expending a level 1+ spell slot 
(no action required). 
LEVEL 6: SPLIT ENCHANTMENT 
When you cast an Enchantment spell, such as 
Charm Person, that can be cast with a higher-
level spell slot to target an additional creature, 
you can increase the spell’s effective level by 1. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier and regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 10: INSTINCTIVE CHARM 
When a creature within 30 feet of you that you 
can see hits you with an attack roll, you can take 
a Reaction to force the attacker to make a 
Wisdom saving throw against your spell save DC. 
On a failed save, the attack misses instead, and if 
there is another creature within range of the 
attack other than the attacker, the attacker 
targets that creature with the triggering attack, 
using the same attack roll. If multiple creatures 
are within the attack’s range, you choose which 
one to target. 
 Once you use this Reaction, you can’t do so 
again until you finish a Long Rest. You can also 
restore your use of it by casting an Enchantment 
spell with a spell slot. 
LEVEL 14: ALTER MEMORIES 
You can reliably enchant creatures and alter 
their memories. You always have the Modify 
Memory spell prepared. When you cast the spell, 
you can target a second creature with it if that 
creature is within range of the spell. 
NECROMANCER (WIZARD) 
Command the Powers of Death and Undeath 
You explore the cosmic forces of life, death, and 
undeath. As a Necromancer, you learn to 
manipulate the energy that animates all 
creatures. As you progress, you learn to use 
magic to drain the life force from a creature and 
transform its vital energy into magical power. 
Many see Necromancers as menacing or 
villainous, though not all Necromancers are evil. 
Nevertheless, the manipulation of life and death 
is considered taboo in many societies. 
DESIGN NOTE: NECROMANCER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
last appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Necromancy Spellbook now lets you use the 
Find Familiar spell to summon a Skeleton or 
Zombie, and Grim Harvest now restores Hit 
Points to an Undead creature of your choice. 
• Undead Thralls has been redesigned to use the 
Animate Dead spell and provides additional 
bonuses. 
• Harvest Undead (formerly Undead Secrets) has 
been redesigned to restore Hit Points to you 
when you destroy an Undead creature you 
control. 
• Death’s Master now allows you to create bursts 
of necrotic energy when an Undead is reduced to 
0 Hit Points. 
LEVEL 3: NECROMANCY SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Necromancy 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free. 
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Necromancy school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots. 
  


=== PAGE 8 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 8 
LEVEL 3: NECROMANCY SPELLBOOK 
The necromantic secrets in your spellbook grant 
you additional powers. You gain the following 
benefits. 
 Necrotic Resistance. You have Resistance to 
Necrotic damage. 
 Grim Harvest. When you cast a Necromancy 
spell using a spell slot, you can choose an 
Undead creature you can see within 60 feet of 
yourself to regain a number of Hit Points equal 
to the level of the spell slot expended plus your 
Wizard level. 
 Undead Familiar. The Find Familiar spell 
appears in your spellbook. When you cast the 
spell, you choose one of the normal forms for 
your familiar or one of the following special 
forms: Skeleton or Zombie (see appendix B of 
the Player’s Handbook for the familiar’s stat 
block). 
LEVEL 6: GRAVE POWER 
You have discovered more necromantic insights 
and inscribed them in your spellbook. While 
holding your spellbook, you gain the following 
benefits. 
 Grave Resilience. When you use Arcane 
Recovery, your Exhaustion level, if any, 
decreases by 1. 
 Overwhelming Necrosis. Damage from your 
Wizard spells and Wizard features ignores 
Resistance to Necrotic damage. 
LEVEL 6: UNDEAD THRALLS 
You always have Animate Dead prepared and can 
cast it once without expending a spell slot. 
Whenever you start casting the spell, you can 
modify it so that the spell’s effective level is 
increased by 1. 
 In addition, whenever you cast a Necromancy 
spell using a spell slot that creates or summons 
an Undead, the Undead gains the benefits below. 
 Undead Fortitude. The Undead’s Hit Point 
maximum and current Hit points increase by a 
number equal to the level of the spell slot used 
plus your Intelligence modifier for the duration 
of the spell. 
 Withering Strike. Whenever the Undead hits a 
creature with an attack roll, the Undead deals 
extra Necrotic damage equal to your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of 1 Necrotic damage). 
LEVEL 10: HARVEST UNDEAD 
You have learned more secrets about the 
nuances of life and death. Immediately after you 
become Bloodied but aren’t killed outright from 
taking damage, you can take a Reaction to reduce 
an Undead creature under your control that you 
can see to 0 Hit Points. You then immediately 
regain a number of Hit Points equal to your 
Wizard level. 
LEVEL 14: DEATH’S MASTER 
Abstruse rituals within your spellbook allow you 
mastery over forces of death. While holding your 
spellbook, you gain the following benefits. 
 Bolster Undead. As a Bonus Action, choose 
any number of Undead you have created or 
summoned with a Necromancy spell that are 
within 60 feet of you. Those Undead each gain 
Temporary Hit Points equal to your Wizard level. 
Once an Undead gains Temporary Hit Points 
from this feature, it can’t gain them in this way 
again for the next 24 hours. 
 Extinguish Undead. When an Undead creature 
you can see is reduced to 0 Hit Points, you can 
cause it to explode with necrotic energy. Roll a 
number of d6s equal to half the creature’s 
unexpended Hit Dice (round up, minimum of 
1d6) and add them together. Each creature in a 
10-foot Emanation originating from the Undead 
makes a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, 
a target takes Necrotic damage equal to the 
number rolled and can’t take Reactions until the 
start of its next turn. On a successful save, a 
target takes half as much damage only. When 
you use this feature to explode an Undead 
creature you don’t control, you must take a 
Reaction and expend a level 5+ spell slot to do 
so. 
  


=== PAGE 9 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 9 
TRANSMUTER (WIZARD) 
Transform Energy and Matter 
You study spells that modify energy and matter. 
To you, the world is not a fixed thing, but 
eminently mutable. Your magic gives you the 
tools to become a smith at reality’s forge. 
 Some Transmuters are tinkerers and 
pranksters. Others pursue their magical studies 
with deadly seriousness, seeking the power 
make and destroy worlds. 
DESIGN NOTE: TRANSMUTER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
last appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Transmuter’s Stone now gives the bearer 
proficiency in Constitution saving throws in 
addition to another benefit. The stone can now 
also be used as a Spellcasting Focus. 
• Wondrous Alteration replaces Wondrous 
Enhancement and grants benefits to the Alter 
Self spell. 
• Empowered Transmutation replaces Twinned 
Transmutation and applies to any Transmutation 
spell that can be cast with a higher-level spell 
slot. 
• Potent Stone now grants additional options for 
the transmutation stone. 
• Shapechanger returns, allows the Wizard to 
modify the Polymorph spell when casting it on 
themself. 
• Master Transmuter now allows you to prevent 
the stone’s destruction by expending a spell slot. 
LEVEL 3: TRANSMUTATION SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the 
Transmutation school, each of which must be no 
higher than level 2, and add them to your 
spellbook for free. 
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Transmutation school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots. 
LEVEL 3: TRANSMUTER’S STONE 
When you finish a Long Rest, you can create a 
magic stone that lasts until you use this feature 
again. The stone is a Tiny object, and you can use 
it as a Spellcasting Focus for your Wizard spells. 
A creature with the stone in its possession gains 
proficiency in Constitution saving throws and 
one of the following benefits, which you choose 
when you create the stone. You can change the 
stone’s benefit when you cast a Transmutation 
spell using a spell slot. 
 Darkvision. The bearer gains Darkvision with 
a range of 60 feet or increases the range of its 
Darkvision by 60 feet. 
 Speed. The bearer’s Speed increases by 10 
feet. 
 Resistance. The bearer gains Resistance to 
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thunder 
damage (your choice each time you choose this 
benefit). 
LEVEL 3: WONDROUS ALTERATION 
You always have the Alter Self spell prepared and 
can cast it once without expending a spell slot. 
You regain the ability to cast it in this way when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
 While under the effects of Alter Self, you gain 
an additional benefit for each of its options. 
 Aquatic Adaptation. While underwater, you 
can take the Dash action as a Bonus Action. 
 Change Appearance. You have Advantage on 
Charisma (Deception) checks. 
 Natural Weapons. The damage of your new 
growth increases to 2d6 damage of the type 
associated with the growth. You also have 
Advantage on Constitution saving throws to 
maintain Concentration. 
LEVEL 6: EMPOWERED TRANSMUTATION 
When you cast a Transmutation spell that 
doesn’t deal damage, such as Fly or Magical 
Weapon, using a spell slot, you can treat the spell 
as if it were cast using a spell slot 1 level above 
the slot expended. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 10: POTENT STONE 
Your Transmuter’s Stone is more versatile. 
When you create your Transmuter’s Stone, you 
can choose up to two benefits. You can choose 
each option other than Resistance only once. If 
you choose Resistance twice, you must choose 
different damage types. You can change either or 
both benefits when you cast a Transmutation 
spell using a spell slot. 
 In addition, the following are now among your 
benefit options for Transmuter’s Stone. 


=== PAGE 10 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 10 
 Mighty Build. The bearer has Advantage on 
Strength saving throws. The bearer also counts 
as one size larger when determining its carrying 
capacity. 
 Tremorsense. The bearer gains Tremorsense 
with a range of 30 feet. 
LEVEL 10: SHAPECHANGER 
You always have the Polymorph spell prepared 
and can cast it once without expending a spell 
slot. You regain the ability to cast it in this way 
when you finish a Long Rest. 
 In addition, when you target yourself with the 
spell, you can modify the spell to gain the 
benefits below. Once you modify the spell using 
this feature, you can’t do so again until you finish 
a Long Rest. 
 Game Statistics. You retain your personality, 
memories, and ability to speak. You also retain 
your Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores; 
class features; languages; and feats. 
 Transmute Spells. You can cast 
Transmutation spells while shape-shifted, except 
for any spell with a Material component that has 
a cost specified or is consumed by the spell. 
LEVEL 14: MASTER TRANSMUTER 
While you carry your Transmuter’s Stone, you 
can take a Magic action to consume the reserve 
of transmutation magic stored inside and choose 
one of the following benefits. After you use your 
Transmuter’s Stone in this way, the stone 
crumbles to dust. You can prevent the stone 
from crumbling by expending a level 5+ spell slot 
as part of the Magic action you take using this 
feature. 
 Major Transformation. You can transmute 
one nonmagical object—no larger than a 10 -foot 
Cube or eight connected 5-foot Cubes— into 
another nonmagical object of similar size and 
mass and of equal or lesser value. You must 
spend 10 minutes handling the object to 
transform it. 
 Panacea. You touch a creature as part of this 
Magic action, and the target regains a number of 
Hit Points equal to half its Hit Point maximum 
(round down). The target is cured of all magical 
contagions, and any curses affecting the target 
are lifted, including the target’s Attunement to a 
cursed item. If the target has the Poisoned or 
Petrified conditions, those conditions end. 
 Restore Life. You cast the Raise Dead spell 
without expending a spell slot, using the stone in 
place of the required Material components. 
 Restore Youth. You touch one willing creature 
as part of this Magic action, and the target’s 
Exhaustion level, if any, decreases to 0 and it 
permanently appears 3d10 years younger, to a 
minimum of young adulthood. 