

=== PAGE 1 ===
 
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 
1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
APOCALYPTIC SUBCLASSES 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material here 
uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents four new subclasses for the 
Druid (Circle of Preservation), Fighter (Gladiator), 
Sorcerer (Defiled Sorcery), and Warlock (Sorcerer-
King Patron).  
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. 
The options here are experimental and in draft form. 
They aren’t officially part of the game. Your feedback 
will help determine whether we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try out 
this material in play. To play with this material, you 
may either incorporate it into your campaign or run 
one or more special playtest sessions. For such a 
session, you may create an adventure of your own or 
use a short adventure from a source like Quests from 
the Infinite Staircase. 
 Power Level. The character options you read here 
might be more or less powerful than options in the 
2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable level 
before publication. This means an option could be 
more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback 
on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D 
Beyond. If we make this material official, it will be 
refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear 
in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way you 
can help shape the future of D&D! 
SUBCLASSES 
The following section presents the following 
subclasses: Circle of Preservation, Gladiator, Defiled 
Sorcery, and Sorcerer-King Patron. 
 
These subclasses are presented starting on the 
following page.  


=== PAGE 2 ===
 
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
CIRCLE OF PRESERVATION (DRUID) 
Safeguard Nature and Heal the World 
Druids of the Circle of Preservation work tirelessly 
to conserve natural resources and restore places 
once ruined by greed and exploitation. Through a 
combination of conservation and restorative magic, 
Druids of this order shield and spread life across the 
land. The most powerful members of this order can 
return vitality to barren fields, transforming 
wastelands into thriving wildernesses once more. 
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF PRESERVATION SPELLS 
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle 
of Preservation Spells table, you thereafter always 
have the listed spells prepared.  
CIRCLE OF PRESERVATION SPELLS 
Druid 
Level 
Spells 
3 Bless, Lesser Restoration, Protection 
from Poison, Sanctuary 
5 Beacon of Hope, Plant Growth 
7 Aura of Life, Death Ward 
9 Greater Restoration, Hallow 
 
LEVEL 3: PRESERVED LAND 
As a Bonus Action, you can expend a use of your 
Wild Shape to fill a 15-foot Cube originating from a 
point on the ground you can see within 120 feet of 
yourself with revitalizing energy. The effect lasts for 
1 minute or until you have the Incapacitated 
condition, are more than 120 feet away from the 
Cube, or die.  
 Whenever a creature (including you) ends its turn 
in the Cube, you can grant the creature one of the 
following benefits: 
Bolster. The creature gains Temporary Hit Points 
equal to 1d4 plus your Druid level. 
Purify. You end one effect on the creature causing it 
to have the Frightened or Poisoned condition.  
In addition, nonmagical vegetation native to the 
region sprouts on ground within the Cube. This 
vegetation disappears when the effect ends. 
 As a Bonus Action on subsequent turns, you can 
move the Cube up to 30 feet to another area on the 
ground within 120 feet of yourself.  
LEVEL 3: STUDENT OF PRESERVATION 
Your studies have improved your understanding of 
the order and resilience of nature, granting you the 
following benefits. 
 Frugal Casting. When you cast a Druid spell, you 
can cast it without Material components, except 
Material components that are consumed by the spell 
or that have a cost specified in the spell. 
 Additionally, whenever you cast a Druid spell that 
requires a Material component that is consumed by 
the spell, there is a 10 percent chance that the 
component isn’t consumed as part of that casting. 
 Tool Proficiency. You gain proficiency with one 
type of Artisan’s Tools of your choice.  
LEVEL 6: IMPROVED PRESERVATION 
Your Preserved Land becomes more powerful in the 
following ways. 
 Fortify Protectors. While inside the Cube created 
by your Preserved Land, you and your allies gain a 
bonus to Constitution saving throws equal to your 
Wisdom modifier (minimum of +1). 
 Reject Desecrators. Whenever the Cube created 
by your Preserved Land enters an enemy’s space 
and whenever an enemy enters the Cube or ends its 
turn there, that enemy makes a Wisdom saving 
throw against your spell save DC. On a failed save, 
the enemy takes 2d10 Radiant damage, and its 
Speed is halved until the end of its next turn as new 
growth rises to hinder it. On a successful save, the 
enemy takes half as much damage only. An enemy 
makes this save only once per turn. 
LEVEL 10: FACILITATED RESTORATION 
You can cast Lesser Restoration or Greater 
Restoration without expending a spell slot or 
requiring spell components. You can use this feature 
to cast a spell in this way a number of times equal to 
your Wisdom modifier (minimum of once), and you 
regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest.  
LEVEL 14: SACROSANCT LAND 
The size of the Cube created by your Preserved Land 
increases to a 30-foot Cube. 
 In addition, when a creature you can see in the 
area of your Preserved Land is hit by an attack roll, 
you can take a Reaction to halve that attack’s 
damage against the creature.  
  


=== PAGE 3 ===
 
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
GLADIATOR (FIGHTER) 
Master Brutality and Blood Sport 
Gladiators are just as much performers as they are 
warriors. Whether brawling in underground fighting 
rings or fighting for survival in bloodstained arenas, 
a Gladiator combines martial skill with theatrics to 
awe and intimidate their audiences.  
LEVEL 3: BRUTALITY 
Shaped by the intensity of the arena, you’ve learned 
to execute brutal martial moves. Once per turn, 
when you hit a creature with an attack roll using a 
Melee weapon, you can add one of the following 
Brutality effects of your choice. You can do this a 
number of times equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum of once), and you regain all expended 
uses when you finish a Short or Long Rest. 
 Bleed. You can activate the Sap mastery property 
in addition to a different mastery property you’re 
using with that weapon, and the target takes extra 
damage equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum 
of 1 damage). The extra damage’s type is the same 
type as the weapon’s type.  
 Bluff. You can activate the Vex mastery property 
in addition to a different mastery property you’re 
using with that weapon, and you have Advantage on 
the next saving throw you make before the end of 
your next turn. 
 Stumble. You can activate the Topple mastery 
property in addition to a different mastery property 
you’re using with that weapon, and on its next turn, 
the target can take only an action or a Bonus Action, 
not both. 
LEVEL 3: COMBAT THEATRICS 
You’ve honed your combat skills to entertain, 
devastating opponents and dazzling onlookers. You 
gain the following benefits. 
 Athletic Flair. Whenever you make a Dexterity 
(Acrobatics) or Strength (Athletics) check, you gain a 
bonus to the check equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum of +1). 
 Bonus Proficiency. You gain proficiency in one of 
these skills of your choice: Acrobatics, Athletics, 
Deception, Intimidation, or Performance. 
LEVEL 7: FLOURISH PARRY 
You’ve learned to stylishly counter blows from your 
opponents. When an enemy hits you with a melee 
attack roll, you can take a Reaction to add your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of +1) to your AC 
against the attack, potentially causing the attack to 
miss.  
 Flourish Counter. If this Reaction causes the 
attack to miss, you can retaliate with a powerful 
counterattack as part of the same Reaction. Make an 
attack roll with a Melee weapon against the 
triggering creature. If this attack hits, you can use 
one of your Brutality effects on the target without 
expending a use of that feature.  
 Once this counterattack hits, you can’t use this 
feature to make another counterattack until you 
finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use of 
this counterattack by expending a use of Second 
Wind (no action required). 
LEVEL 10: BOLDER BRUTALITIES 
Your brutal martial prowess has improved. The 
following effects are added to your Brutality options.  
 Rive. You can activate the Cleave mastery 
property in addition to a different mastery property 
you’re using with that weapon, and you can add your 
ability modifier to the damage of the additional 
attack made as part of that property’s activation.  
 Rush. You can activate the Push mastery property 
in addition to a different mastery property you’re 
using with that weapon, and you can immediately 
move up to your Speed without provoking 
Opportunity Attacks.  
 Stagger. You can activate the Slow mastery 
property in addition to a different mastery property 
you’re using with that weapon, and the target has 
Disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes 
before the end of your next turn.  
LEVEL 15: BRUTAL RESURGENCE 
Whenever you use your Second Wind to regain Hit 
Points, you regain an expended use of Brutality. You 
also regain an expended use of Brutality whenever 
you use your Action Surge.   
LEVEL 18: MUTILATE 
When you hit a Bloodied creature with an attack roll, 
you can attempt to critically injure it. The target 
makes a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus your 
Charisma modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a 
failed save, the target suffers the following effects: 
Maimed. If the target takes the Attack action, it can 
make only one attack. 
Sluggish. The target’s Speed is halved, and it has a 
−2 penalty to its Armor Class. 
These effects last until the target regains Hit Points. 
 Once a target fails its saving throw against this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a Long 
Rest. 
  


=== PAGE 4 ===
 
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
DEFILED SORCERY (SORCERER) 
Siphon Life into Catastrophic Spells 
Your innate power siphons life essence from the 
surrounding world. At your command, creatures 
grow sick and plants wither to husks. You draw 
power from the corruption of life itself, draining 
vitality to fuel destructive magic. 
LEVEL 3: DEFILE AND EMPOWER 
Once per turn when you roll damage for a spell you 
cast using a spell slot, you can siphon your life 
energy into the spell and empower it. Roll a number 
of your unexpended Hit Point Dice, up to a number 
equal to half the level of spell slot expended (round 
up, minimum of one die), and add the total rolled to 
one damage roll of the spell. Those Hit Point Dice are 
then expended.  
 Life Steal. Instead of drawing on your own life 
force when you use this feature, you can try to steal 
life from another creature you can see within 30 feet 
of yourself. That creature makes a Constitution 
saving throw against your spell save DC; creatures 
that have Immunity to the Exhaustion condition 
automatically succeed on the save. On a failed save, 
in place of rolling your Hit Point Dice, roll a number 
of the creature’s unexpended Hit Point Dice, up to a 
number equal to half the level of slot expended 
(round down, minimum of one die); you then add 
that total rolled to one damage roll of the spell, and 
those Hit Point Dice are expended for the creature.  
 Once a creature fails its save against Life Steal, you 
can’t use Life Steal again until you finish a Long Rest 
unless you expend 3 Sorcery Points (no action 
required) to restore your use of it. 
DESIGN NOTE: HIT POINT DICE 
Monsters, like player characters, have Hit Point Dice. 
The size and number of a monster’s Hit Dice are 
typically denoted in the monster’s stat block as part of 
the parenthetical after the monster’s average Hit 
Points. Any creature— both characters and monsters—
can expend Hit Dice during a Short Rest to regain Hit 
Points. 
 When a monster is first encountered, assume that it 
hasn’t expended any of its Hit Dice.  
LEVEL 3: DEFILER SPELLS 
Whenever you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Defiler Spells table, you thereafter always have the 
listed spells prepared.  
DEFILER SPELLS 
Sorcerer 
Level 
Spells 
3 Blindness/Deafness, Inflict Wounds, Ray 
of Enfeeblement, Ray of Sickness 
5 Bestow Curse, Vampiric Touch 
7 Blight, Hallucinatory Terrain 
9  Antilife Shell, Contagion 
 
LEVEL 6: CORRUPTED CASTER 
You learn further ways to tap into the corrupting 
magic within yourself, granting you the following 
benefits. 
  Defiler’s Ward. When you take a Bonus Action to 
transform Sorcery Points into a spell slot, you can 
wreathe your body in a protective web of defiling 
energy. Roll a number of d6s equal to the level of 
spell slot created. You gain Temporary Hit Points 
equal to the total rolled.  
 If a creature hits you with a melee attack roll while 
you have Temporary Hit Points, the creature takes 
Necrotic or Poison damage (your choice) equal to 
your Charisma modifier. 
 Strengthened Rot. Damage dealt by your Sorcerer 
spells and Sorcerer features ignores Resistance to 
Necrotic and Poison damage. 
LEVEL 14: WITHERING AURA 
When you use your Innate Sorcery, an aura of 
defiling magic fills a 15-foot Emanation originating 
from you while your Innate Sorcery is active, 
granting you the following additional benefits. 
 Defiling Shroud. When an enemy within the aura 
hits you with an attack roll, you can reduce that 
attack’s total damage against you. The reduction 
equals your Charisma modifier. 
 Essence Siphon. When an enemy dies within the 
aura, you regain 1d4 Sorcery Points. Once you use 
this benefit, you can’t regain Sorcery Points in this 
way until you use Innate Sorcery again.  
LEVEL 18: SUPERIOR DEFILER 
You’ve perfected your ability to control and channel 
defiling magic, granting you the following benefits. 
 Fouled Soul. You have Immunity to the Poisoned 
and Exhaustion conditions.  
 Furthered Defilement. The size of your Withering 
Aura increases to a 30-foot Emanation. In addition, 
enemies can’t regain Hit Points while in your aura. 


=== PAGE 5 ===
 
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
SORCERER-KING PATRON 
Herald Tyrannical Might of Monstrous Rulers 
Your pact draws from the power of a monstrous, 
tyrannical force akin to a demigod or an 
overwhelmingly powerful magic-user. Through your 
pact, you herald this tyrant’s interests in the world, 
channeling their influence and mind-bending, 
psionic power. 
LEVEL 3: SORCERER-KING SPELLS 
The magic of your patron ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; whenever you reach a Warlock 
level specified in the Sorcerer-King Spells table, you 
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 
 Psionic Casting. When you cast a spell from the 
Sorcerer-King Spells table, you can do so without 
Verbal or Material components, except Material 
components that are consumed by the spell or that 
have a cost specified in the spell. 
SORCERER-KING SPELLS 
Warlock 
Level 
Spells 
3 Command, Compelled Duel, Hold 
Person, Mind Spike, Wrathful Smite  
5 Fear, Sending 
7 Compulsion, Staggering Smite 
9 Dominate Person, Synaptic Static 
 
LEVEL 3: TYRANT’S HERALD 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Intimidating Presence. You gain proficiency in 
the Intimidation skill if you don’t already have it. 
You also have Expertise in Intimidation.  
 Voice of Tyranny. You can cast Command as a 
Bonus Action without expending a spell slot. You can 
do so a number of times equal to your Charisma 
modifier (minimum of once), and you regain all 
expended uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 6: DECISIVE EDICT 
Your patron’s power surges through you, allowing 
you to rally your allies and subjugate your enemies. 
When you cast a spell using a Pact Magic spell slot, 
you can cause profane power to erupt in a 30-foot 
Emanation originating from you. For each creature 
you can see in the Emanation, choose one of the 
following effects: 
Marshal. The creature has Advantage on attack rolls 
until the end of its next turn.  
Oppress. The creature must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw against your spell save DC or have 
the Frightened condition until the end of its next 
turn.  
Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again until 
you finish a Short or Long Rest. You also regain use 
of this feature when you use Magical Cunning.  
LEVEL 10: VINDICTIVE REBUKE 
You learn to rebuff those who challenge you or the 
might of your patron. When an enemy hits you with 
an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to force the 
enemy to reroll the d20, and the enemy must use the 
new roll. If this Reaction turns the attack roll into a 
miss, the triggering creature takes Psychic damage 
equal to your Warlock level. 
 You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Charisma modifier (minimum of once), and 
you regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest. 
LEVEL 14: ABSOLUTE TYRANNY 
You wield your patron’s tyrannical might with 
absolute conviction. Whenever you cast Command, 
you can target one additional creature within the 
spell’s range. Additionally, a creature Frightened by 
you automatically fails its saving throw against any 
Command you cast.  