

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
PSION UPDATE 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material here 
uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. 
LEARN MORE ON YOUTUBE 
To learn more about the design in this article, we invite 
you to view the videos about it on YouTube 
(www.youtube.com/DNDWizards). 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
Psion. The first new class since the Artificer, the 
Psion has received numerous changes based on 
your feedback. 
Subclasses. Three subclasses return with changes: 
Metamorph, Psykinetic, and Telepath.  
Spells. A collection of spells, both familiar and new, 
enhance the options available to the Psion. 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. 
The options here are experimental and in draft form. 
They aren’t officially part of the game. Your feedback 
will help determine whether we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try out 
this material in play. To play with this material, you 
may either incorporate it into your campaign or run 
one or more special playtest sessions. For such a 
session, you may create an adventure of your own or 
use a short adventure from a source like Quests from 
the Infinite Staircase. 
 Power Level. The character options you read here 
might be more or less powerful than options in the 
2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable level 
before publication. This means an option could be 
more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback 
on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D 
Beyond. If we make this material official, it will be 
refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear 
in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way you 
can help shape the future of D&D! 
PSION 
A Master of Psionic Power 
Psions wield magic and extraordinary powers 
through the power of thought. They develop their 
minds as fonts of power that manifest spells and 
grow stronger over the course of their adventuring 
careers. You can find everything you need to play 
one of these psionic powerhouses in the next few 
sections. 
WHAT IS A PSION? 
Psions are spellcasters who use innate mental powers 
to gain extraordinary abilities and unleash the magic of 
their minds. Psions and their magic (sometimes called 
“psionics”) can trace their history back to the appendix 
of the first edition Player’s Handbook, and a psionics-
using class first appeared in The Complete Psionics 
Handbook in 1991. Psionics have taken numerous 
forms in D&D, from alternative magic systems to 
options that dovetail with other D&D rules. In the fifth 
edition, psychic power is synonymous with magic, and 
the magic of the mind flavors numerous spells, 
monsters, and subclasses— like the Psi Warrior Fighter 
and the Aberrant Sorcery Sorcerer in the Player’s 
Handbook. In this edition, the Psion is a spellcaster 
who interfaces with magic and spellcasting similarly to 
other classes in the game. 
 This UA provides the Psion with unique twists to 
spellcasting using Psionic Energy Dice and the Psionic 
Spellcasting feature, carving out a space to make the 
Psion stand out from its spellcasting peers. 
CORE PSION TRAITS 
Primary Ability Intelligence 
Hit Point Die D6 per Psion level 
Saving Throw 
Proficiencies 
Intelligence and Wisdom 
Skill Proficiencies Choose 2: Arcana, Insight, 
Intimidation, Investigation, 
Medicine, Perception, 
Persuasion 
Weapon 
Proficiencies 
Simple weapons 
Armor Training None 
Starting 
Equipment 
Choose A or B: (A) Spear, 2 
Daggers, Light Crossbow, 20 
Bolts, Case, Dungeoneer’s Pack, 
and 6 GP; or (B) 50 GP  
BECOMING A PSION …  
AS A LEVEL 1 CHARACTER 
• Gain all the traits in the Core Psion Traits table. 
• Gain the Psion’s level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Psion Features table. 


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
AS A MULTICLASS CHARACTER 
• Gain the Hit Point Die from the Core Psion Traits 
table. 
• Gain the Psion’s level 1 features, which are listed 
in the Psion Features table. See the multiclassing 
rules in the Player’s Handbook to determine your 
available spell slots, adding all your Psion levels. 
PSION CLASS FEATURES 
As a Psion, you gain the following class features 
when you reach the specified Psion levels. These 
features are listed on the Psion Features table. 
DESIGN NOTE: PSION UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this class since its last 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Psionic Power now has a free baseline ability in 
Telekinetic Propel and Telepathic Connection. 
• Spellcasting now provides new cantrips at levels 4 
and 10. 
• Psionic Modes have been removed. Aspects of the 
design can be seen in other features like Psionic 
Discipline. 
• Psionic Discipline now gives you additional 
disciplines at earlier levels, but you gain only one. 
• Psionic Restoration has been redesigned to quickly 
regain expended Psionic Energy Dice. 
• Psionic Reserves is a new feature that allows the 
Psion to keep a minimum amount of Psionic Energy 
Dice. 
• Enkindled Life Force is now more flexible in the 
amount of Hit Point Dice that can be expended and 
clarifies the additional Psionic Energy Die aren’t 
expended. 
LEVEL 1: PSIONIC POWER 
You harbor a wellspring of psionic energy within 
yourself. This energy is represented by your Psionic 
Energy Dice. Your Psion level determines the die 
size and number of Psionic Energy Dice you have, as 
shown in the Energy Dice column of the Psion 
Features table.  
PSION FEATURES 
 Proficiency Class Energy   Prepared  — Spell Slots per Spell Level—  
Level Bonus Features Dice Cantrips Spells 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
1 +2 Psionic Power, 
Spellcasting, Subtle 
Telekinesis 
4d6 2 4 2 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  
2 +2 Psionic Discipline 4d6 2 5 3 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  —  
3 +2 Psion Subclass 4d6 2 6 4 2 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  
4 +2 Ability Score 
Improvement 
4d6 3 7 4 3 —  —  —  —  —  —  —  
5 +3 Psionic Discipline, 
Psionic Restoration 
6d8 3 9 4 3 2 —  —  —  —  —  —  
6 +3 Subclass Feature 6d8 3 10 4 3 3 —  —  —  —  —  —  
7 +3 Psionic Surge 6d8 3 11 4 3 3 1 —  —  —  —  —  
8 +3 Ability Score 
Improvement 
6d8 3 12 4 3 3 2 —  —  —  —  —  
9 +4 —  8d8 3 14 4 3 3 3 1 —  —  —  —  
10 +4 Psionic Discipline, 
Subclass Feature 
8d8 4 15 4 3 3 3 2 —  —  —  —  
11 +4 —  8d10 4 16 4 3 3 3 2 1 —  —  —  
12 +4 Ability Score 
Improvement 
8d10 4 16 4 3 3 3 2 1 —  —  —  
13 +5 Psionic Discipline 10d10 4 17 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 —  —  
14 +5 Subclass Feature 10d10 4 17 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 —  —  
15 +5 —  10d10 4 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 —  
16 +5 Ability Score 
Improvement 
10d10 4 18 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 —  
17 +6 Psionic Discipline 12d12 4 19 4 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 1 
18 +6 Psionic Reserves 12d12 4 20 4 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 
19 +6 Epic Boon 12d12 4 21 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 
20 +6 Enkindled Life Force 12d12 4 22 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 
 


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
 Your Psionic Energy Dice are used to enhance or 
fuel certain Psion features. You start with two such 
features: Telekinetic Propel and Telepathic 
Connection, each of which is detailed below. Some of 
your powers expend the Psionic Energy Dice, as 
specified in a power’s description, and you can’t use 
a power if it requires you to use a die when all your 
Psionic Energy Dice are expended. 
 You regain one expended Psionic Energy Die when 
you finish a Short Rest, and you regain all of them 
when you finish a Long Rest. 
 Some features that use Psionic Energy Dice 
require your target to make a saving throw. The save 
DC equals the spell save DC from this class’s 
Spellcasting feature. 
 Telekinetic Propel. As a Bonus Action, choose one 
Large or smaller creature other than you that you 
can see within 30 feet of yourself. When you do so, 
the target must succeed on a Strength saving throw 
or be moved 5 feet straight toward you or straight 
away from you. Alternatively, you can roll one 
Psionic Energy Die when you take this Bonus Action, 
and the distance moved is equal to 5 times the 
number rolled. The die is expended only if the target 
fails the saving throw. 
 Telepathic Connection. You have telepathy with a 
range of 30 feet. As a Bonus Action, you can roll one 
Psionic Energy Die. For the next hour, the range of 
your telepathy increases by a number of feet equal 
to 10 times the number rolled. The first time you use 
this Bonus Action after each Long Rest, you don’t 
expend the Psionic Energy Die. All other times you 
use this feature, you expend the die. 
LEVEL 1: SPELLCASTING 
You have learned how to channel magical energy 
using the power of your mind. See the Player’s 
Handbook for the rules on spellcasting. The 
information below details how you use those rules 
with Psion spells, which appear in the Psion spell list 
later in the class’s description. 
 Cantrips. You know two Psion cantrips of your 
choice. Minor Illusion and Telekinetic Fling are 
recommended. 
 Whenever you gain a Psion level, you can replace 
one of your cantrips from this feature with another 
Psion cantrip of your choice. 
 When you reach Psion levels 4 and 10, you learn 
another Psion cantrip of your choice, as shown in 
the Cantrips column of the Psion Features table.  
 Spell Slots. The Psion Features table shows how 
many spell slots you have to cast your level 1+ 
spells. You regain all expended spell slots when you 
finish a Long Rest. 
 Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list 
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast 
with this feature. To start, choose four level 1 Psion 
spells. Charm Person, Command, Dissonant Whispers, 
and Mage Armor are recommended. 
 The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Psion levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Psion Features table. Whenever that 
number increases, choose additional Psion spells 
until the number of spells on your list matches the 
number in the table. The chosen spells must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots. For example, if 
you’re a level 3 Psion, your list of prepared spells 
can include six Psion spells of levels 1 and 2 in any 
combination. 
 If another Psion feature gives you spells that you 
always have prepared, those don’t count against the 
number of spells you can prepare with this feature, 
but those spells otherwise count as Psion spells for 
you. 
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Psion level, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Psion spell of an eligible level. 
 Spellcasting Ability. Intelligence is your 
spellcasting ability for your Psion spells. 
 Psionic Spellcasting. When you cast a Psion spell, 
that spell doesn’t require a Verbal or Material 
component, even if the spell includes “V” or “M” in 
its “Components” entry, except Material components 
that are consumed by the spell or have a cost 
specified in the spell. 
LEVEL 1: SUBTLE TELEKINESIS 
You know the Mage Hand cantrip. You can cast it 
without Somatic components, and you can make the 
spectral hand Invisible when you cast it. 
LEVEL 2: PSIONIC DISCIPLINE 
You learn further psionic techniques that are fueled 
by your Psionic Energy Dice. You gain two 
disciplines of your choice, such as Expanded 
Awareness and Id Insinuation. Disciplines are 
described in the “Psionic Discipline Options” section 
later in this class’s description.  
 You can use only one Discipline each turn and only 
once per turn unless otherwise noted in one of those 
options. 
 Whenever you gain a Psion level, you can replace 
one of your Psionic Discipline options with one you 
don’t know. You gain one additional option at Psion 
levels 5, 10, 13, and 17. 
LEVEL 3: PSION SUBCLASS 
You gain a Psion subclass of your choice. The 
Metamorph, Psykinetic, and Telepath subclasses are 
detailed after this class’s description. A subclass is a 
specialization that grants you features at certain 
Psion levels. For the rest of your career, you gain 
each of your subclass’s features that are of your 
Psion level or lower. 


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
LEVEL 4: ABILITY SCORE IMPROVEMENT 
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat or 
another feat of your choice for which you qualify. 
You gain this feature again at Psion levels 8, 12, and 
16. 
LEVEL 5: PSIONIC RESTORATION 
You can perform a meditation that focuses the mind 
for 1 minute. At the end of it, you regain expended 
Psionic Energy Dice. Once you use this feature, you 
can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 7: PSIONIC SURGE 
You can push your psionic powers using your life 
force. After you roll one or more Psionic Energy 
Dice, you can expend one of your Hit Point Dice and 
treat any roll of 1, 2, or 3 on those Psionic Energy 
Dice as a 4.  
LEVEL 18: PSIONIC RESERVES 
When you roll Initiative, you regain expended uses 
of Psionic Energy Dice until you have four if you 
have fewer than that. 
LEVEL 19: EPIC BOON 
You gain an Epic Boon feat or another feat of your 
choice for which you qualify. Boon of Energy 
Resistance is recommended. 
LEVEL 20: ENKINDLED LIFE FORCE 
You burn your life force to achieve greater psionics. 
Once per turn, when you roll one or more Psionic 
Energy Dice for a Psion feature or Psionic Discipline, 
you can expend one or two of your Hit Point Dice. 
For each Hit Point Die expended, roll an additional 
Psionic Energy Die and add the numbers rolled to 
the total. This roll does not expend the Psionic 
Energy Die. 
PSIONIC DISCIPLINE OPTIONS 
Psionic Discipline options appear in alphabetical 
order. 
DESIGN NOTE: PSION UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this feature since its last 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Biofeedback and Destructive Thoughts are now 
more flexible in the number of Psionic Energy Dice 
you can expend. 
• Bolstering Precognition (formerly Swift 
Precognition) now provides a bonus to your or an 
ally’s next D20 Test. 
• Devilish Tongue, Expanded Awareness, and 
Observant Mind (formerly Tactical Mind) now 
expend the Psionic Energy Die only on a success. 
• Sharpened Mind is a new discipline, and Ego Whip 
has been redesigned as a spell. 
BIOFEEDBACK 
When you cast a Psion spell from the Necromancy or 
Transmutation school, you can expend a number of 
Psionic Energy Dice up to your Intelligence modifier, 
roll them, and gain a number of Temporary Hit 
Points equal to the total number rolled plus your 
Intelligence modifier (minimum of one). 
BOLSTERING PRECOGNITION 
When you cast a Psion spell from the Abjuration or 
Divination school, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die. Roll the die and choose a creature you 
can see within 60 feet (which can be yourself). Until 
the end of your next turn, the creature gains a bonus 
to the next D20 Test it makes equal to the number 
rolled. 
DESTRUCTIVE THOUGHTS 
When you cast a Psion spell from the Conjuration or 
Evocation school that forces a creature you can see 
to make a saving throw against the spell, you can 
expend a number of Psionic Energy Dice up to your 
Intelligence modifier, and roll them. The creature 
takes Psychic damage equal to the total number 
rolled plus your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
one), regardless of the result of the saving throw. 
DEVILISH TONGUE 
When you take the Influence action, you can roll one 
Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled to the 
ability check. If this causes you to succeed on the 
ability check, the die is expended. 
EXPANDED AWARENESS 
When you take the Search action, you can roll one 
Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled to the 
ability check. If this causes you to succeed on the 
ability check, the die is expended. 
ID INSINUATION 
When you cast a Psion spell from the Enchantment 
or Illusion school that forces a creature to make a 
saving throw, you can expend one Psionic Energy 
Dice and roll it. One target of the spell you can see 
subtracts half the number rolled (round up) from its 
saving throw against the spell. 


=== PAGE 5 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
INERRANT AIM 
When you make an attack roll against a creature and 
miss, you can roll one Psionic Energy Die and add 
the number rolled to the attack roll. If this causes the 
attack to hit, the die is expended. 
OBSERVANT MIND 
When you take the Study action, you can roll one 
Psionic Energy Die and add the number rolled to the 
ability check. If this causes you to succeed on the 
ability check, the die is expended. 
PSIONIC BACKLASH 
Immediately after a creature you can see hits you 
with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to 
expend one Psionic Energy Die, roll it, and reduce 
the damage you take from the attack equal to two 
times the number rolled plus your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of two). In addition, you can 
force the attacker to make a Wisdom saving throw. 
On a failed save, the target takes Psychic damage 
equal to the amount of damage you reduced. 
PSIONIC GUARDS 
At the start of your turn, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die. Until the start of your next turn, you 
have Immunity to the Charmed and Frightened 
conditions and Advantage on Intelligence saving 
throws. If you are Charmed or Frightened when you 
use this discipline, the condition ends on you. 
 When you use Psionic Guards, you can also use a 
different Psionic Discipline this turn. 
SHARPENED MIND 
At the start of your turn, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die to hone your destructive psionics. Roll 
the die and record the number rolled. You gain the 
following benefits for 1 minute or until you have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
 Bypassing Psionics. Damage from your weapon 
attacks, Psion spells, and Psion features ignores 
Resistance to Psychic damage. 
 Attack Mode. Once per turn, when you deal 
Psychic damage to one or more creatures, you can 
replace the number rolled on one of the damage dice 
with the number recorded when you activated this 
Psionic Discipline. 
 When you use Sharpened Mind, you can also use a 
different Psionic Discipline this turn. 
PSION SPELL LIST 
This section presents the Psion spell list. The spells 
are organized by spell level and then alphabetized, 
and each spell’s school of magic is listed. In the 
Special column, C means the spell requires 
Concentration, R means it’s a Ritual, and M means it 
requires a specific Material component. 
DESIGN NOTE: SPELL LIST UPDATES 
The Psion spell list includes the following new spells: 
• Level 1: Life Siphon, Sanctuary, Shield, Thunderwave 
• Level 2: Ectoplasmic Trail, Ego Whip 
• Level 3: Bleeding Darkness, Enemies Abound 
• Level 4: Life Inversion Field 
• Level 6: Mental Prison, Psionic Blast, Thought Form 
• Level 8: Abi-Dalzim’s Horrid Wilting 
The list includes only spells from the Player’s Handbook 
and in this article. 
 
CANTRIPS (LEVEL 0 PSION SPELLS) 
Spell School Special 
Blade Ward Abjuration C 
Dancing Lights Illusion C 
Friends Enchantment C 
Light Evocation —  
Mage Hand Conjuration —  
Mending Transmutation —  
Message Transmutation —  
Mind Sliver Enchantment —  
Minor Illusion Illusion —  
Prestidigitation Transmutation —  
Telekinetic Fling 
(appears in this UA) 
Evocation —  
True Strike Divination —  
 
L
EVEL 1 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Animal Friendship Enchantment —  
Charm Person Enchantment —  
Command Enchantment —  
Comprehend 
Languages 
Divination R 
Detect Magic Divination C, R 
Dissonant Whispers Enchantment —  
Feather Fall Transmutation —  
Identify Divination R, M 
Jump Transmutation —  
Life Siphon 
(appears in this UA) 
Evocation —  
Longstrider Transmutation —  
Mage Armor Abjuration —  
Sanctuary Abjuration —  
Shield Abjuration —  


=== PAGE 6 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 6 
Silent Image Illusion C 
Sleep Enchantment C 
Speak with Animals Divination R 
Tasha’s Hideous 
Laughter 
Enchantment C 
Tenser’s Floating Disk Conjuration R 
Thunderwave Evocation —  
 
LEVEL 2 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Animal Messenger Enchantment R 
Blindness/Deafness Transmutation —  
Calm Emotions Enchantment C 
Crown of Madness Enchantment C 
Detect Thoughts Divination C 
Ectoplasmic Trail 
(appears in this UA) 
Necromancy —  
Ego Whip (appears in 
this UA) 
Enchantment —  
Enhance Ability Transmutation C 
Enlarge/Reduce Transmutation C 
Enthrall Enchantment C 
Heat Metal Transmutation C 
Hold Person Enchantment C 
Invisibility Illusion C 
Knock Transmutation —  
Levitate Transmutation C 
Locate Animals or 
Plants 
Divination R 
Locate Object Divination C 
Magic Mouth Illusion R, M 
Mind Spike Divination C 
Mirror Image Illusion —  
Phantasmal Force Illusion C 
See Invisibility Divination —  
Shatter Evocation —  
Silence Illusion C, R 
Suggestion Enchantment C 
Tasha’s Mind Whip 
(appears in this UA) 
Enchantment —  
Zone of Truth Enchantment —  
 
L
EVEL 3 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Bestow Curse Necromancy C 
Bleeding Darkness 
(appears in this UA) 
Evocation C, M 
Clairvoyance Divination C, M 
Dispel Magic Abjuration —  
Enemies Abound 
(appears in this UA) 
Enchantment C 
Fear Illusion C 
Fly Transmutation C 
Hypnotic Pattern Illusion C 
Intellect Fortress 
(appears in this UA) 
Abjuration C 
Major Image Illusion C 
Nondetection Abjuration M 
Sending Divination —  
Summon Astral Entity 
(appears in this UA) 
Conjuration C, M 
Telekinetic Crush 
(appears in this UA) 
Transmutation —  
Tongues Divination —  
 
L
EVEL 4 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Arcane Eye Divination C 
Banishment Abjuration C 
Charm Monster Enchantment —  
Compulsion Enchantment C 
Confusion Enchantment C 
Dimension Door Conjuration —  
Freedom of Movement Abjuration —  
Greater Invisibility Illusion C 
Hallucinatory Terrain Illusion —  
Life Inversion Field 
(appears in this UA) 
Abjuration C 
Locate Creature Divination C 
Phantasmal Killer Illusion C 
Polymorph Transmutation C 
Raulothim’s Psychic 
Lance (appears in this 
UA) 
Enchantment —  
Summon Aberration Conjuration C, M 
 
L
EVEL 5 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Animate Objects Transmutation C 
Awaken Transmutation M 
Contact Other Plane Divination R 
Dominate Person Enchantment C 
Dream Illusion —  
Geas Enchantment —  
Hold Monster Enchantment C 
Legend Lore Divination M 
Mislead Illusion C 
Modify Memory Enchantment C 
Rary’s Telepathic Bond Divination R 
Scrying Divination C, M 
Seeming Illusion —  
Synaptic Static Enchantment —  
Telekinesis Transmutation C 
Teleportation Circle Conjuration M 
 
L
EVEL 6 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Blade Barrier Evocation C 
Disintegrate Transmutation —  
Eyebite Necromancy C 
Find the Path Divination C, M 


=== PAGE 7 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 7 
Mass Suggestion Enchantment —  
Mental Prison 
(appears in this UA) 
Illusion C 
Move Earth Transmutation C 
Otto’s Irresistible 
Dance 
Enchantment C 
Programmed Illusion Illusion M 
Psionic Blast (appears 
in this UA) 
Evocation —  
Thought Form 
(appears in this UA) 
Transmutation C, M 
True Seeing Divination M 
 
LEVEL 7 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Etherealness Conjuration —  
Forcecage Evocation C, M 
Mirage Arcane Illusion —  
Plane Shift Conjuration M 
Power Word Fortify Enchantment —  
Project Image Illusion C, M 
Reverse Gravity Transmutation C 
Teleport Conjuration —  
 
L
EVEL 8 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Abi-Dalzim’s Horrid 
Wilting (appears in 
this UA) 
Necromancy —  
Antimagic Field Abjuration C 
Antipathy/Sympathy Enchantment —  
Befuddlement Enchantment —  
Dominate Monster Enchantment C 
Glibness Enchantment —  
Maze Conjuration C 
Mind Blank Abjuration —  
Power Word Stun Enchantment —  
Telepathy Divination —  
 
L
EVEL 9 PSION SPELLS 
Spell School Special 
Astral Projection Necromancy M 
Foresight Divination —  
Power Word Heal Enchantment —  
Power Word Kill Enchantment —  
Psychic Scream 
(appears in this UA) 
Enchantment —  
Shapechange Transmutation C, M 
Time Stop Transmutation —  
Weird Illusion C 
 
PSION SUBCLASSES 
A Psion subclass is a specialization that grants you 
features at certain Psion levels, as specified in the 
subclass. This section presents the Metamorph, 
Psykinetic, and Telepath subclasses. 
DESIGN NOTE: THE PSI WARPER 
The Psi Warper subclass scored exceptionally well and 
doesn’t need to go through another playtest. 
METAMORPH 
Psychically Sculpt Life and Flesh 
Your mastery of psionic powers turns inward. Your 
own flesh becomes like clay to you, and you mold it 
into the perfect vessel for your psionic powers. 
Experience in manipulating your life energy also 
enables you to adjust the life force of friends and 
foes. 
DESIGN NOTE: METAMORPH UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its last 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Mutable Form (formerly Extend Limbs) now grants 
Temporary Hit Points from the expended Psionic 
Energy Die. 
• Organic Weapons now regains its form until you 
change it or have the Unconscious condition. In 
addition, magic items that provide benefits to 
Organic Weapons will appear in a future product if 
this subclass is printed. 
• Flesh Weaver is a new feature. 
• Life-Bending Weapons now provides additional 
damage without expending a Psionic Energy Die. 
LEVEL 3: METAMORPH SPELLS 
When you reach a Psion level specified in the 
Metamorph Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared. 
METAMORPH SPELLS 
Psion Level Spells 
3 Alter Self, Cure Wounds, Inflict 
Wounds, Lesser Restoration 
5 Aura of Vitality, Haste 
7 Polymorph, Stoneskin 
9 Contagion, Mass Cure Wounds 
 
LEVEL 3: MUTABLE FORM 
As a Bonus Action, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die to psionically stretch your limbs for 1 
minute. Roll the expended Psionic Energy Die and 
gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to the 
number rolled plus your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum of 1 Temporary Hit Point). In addition, 


=== PAGE 8 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 8 
you gain the following benefits while this feature is 
active. 
 Reach. Your reach increases by 5 feet. 
 Speed. Your Speed increases by 5 feet. 
 Touch. When you cast a spell that has a range of 
Touch and a casting time of an action, you can make 
the spell’s range 10 feet. 
LEVEL 3: ORGANIC WEAPONS 
You can shape your limbs into weapons. As a Magic 
action, you can reform your free hand into one of the 
following organic weapons: Bone Blade, Flesh Maul, 
or Viscera Launcher. When you take the Attack 
action, you can use this feature before you make the 
attack roll. Your limb retains the form of the organic 
weapon until you take a Magic action to change it 
into another organic weapon, you have the 
Unconscious condition, or you return the limb to its 
previous form (no action required). 
 Whenever you attack with the weapon, you can 
use your Intelligence modifier for the attack and 
damage rolls instead of using Strength or Dexterity. 
 Bone Blade. A blade made of bone springs from 
your forearm or extends from your hand. The blade 
counts as a Simple Melee weapon with the Finesse 
property, and it deals 1d8 Piercing damage on a hit. 
You have Advantage on the attack roll you make 
with the blade if at least one of your allies is within 5 
feet of the target and the ally doesn’t have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
 Flesh Maul. Your fist and forearm coalesce into a 
hardened mass of flesh and bone. The maul counts 
as a Simple Melee weapon and deals 1d10 
Bludgeoning damage on a hit. A creature hit by the 
maul has Disadvantage on the next Strength or 
Constitution saving throw it makes before the start 
of its next turn. 
 Viscera Launcher. Your hand and forearm 
transform into a crossbow made of muscle and 
sinew that fires bolts of bile. The launcher counts as 
a Simple Ranged weapon with a normal range of 30 
feet and a long range of 90 feet, and it deals 1d6 Acid 
damage on a hit. Once on each of your turns when 
you hit a creature with an attack roll using the 
launcher, you can deal an extra 1d6 Acid damage to 
the target. 
LEVEL 6: EXTRA ATTACK 
You can attack twice instead of once whenever you 
take the Attack action on your turn.  
 In addition, you can cast one of your Psion 
cantrips that has a casting time of an action in place 
of one of those attacks. 
LEVEL 6: FLESH WEAVER 
When you use Mutable Form, you can expend an 
additional Psionic Energy Die to gain the following 
benefits while the feature is active. 
 Organic Defense. You gain a +2 bonus to AC. 
 Empowered Healing. When you cast a spell with a 
spell slot that restores Hit Points to one or more 
creatures, you can expend one Psionic Energy Die, 
roll it, and add the number rolled to the number of 
Hit Points regained. 
LEVEL 10: IMPROVED MUTABLE FORM 
When you use Mutable Form, the duration increases 
to 10 minutes and you gain one of the following 
benefits of your choice, the effects of which last until 
Mutable Form ends. 
 Stony Epidermis. You have Advantage on 
Constitution saving throws to maintain 
Concentration. In addition, choose one of the 
following damage types: Acid, Bludgeoning, Cold, 
Fire, Lightning, Piercing, Poison, Slashing, or 
Thunder. You gain Resistance to the chosen damage 
type. 
 Superior Stride. While you aren’t wearing armor, 
you can take the Dash action as a Bonus Action, and 
you have a Climb Speed and Swim Speed equal to 
your Speed. 
 Unnatural Flexibility. You gain a +1 bonus to AC, 
and your body—along with any equipment you ’re 
wearing or carrying— becomes pliable. You can 
move through any space as narrow as 1 inch, and 
you can spend 5 feet of movement to escape from 
nonmagical restraints or end the Grappled 
condition.  
LEVEL 14: LIFE-BENDING WEAPONS 
Your weapon becomes wreathed in negative energy, 
and you radiate life-mending psionic energy. When 
you hit a target with an attack roll using your 
Organic Weapon, roll one Psionic Energy Die. The 
target takes extra Necrotic damage equal to the 
number rolled. This roll doesn’t expend the die. 
 Alternatively, when you hit a creature with your 
Organic Weapon, you can instead expend one 
Psionic Energy Die and roll it. The target takes extra 
Necrotic damage equal to the roll, and each creature 
of your choice in a 30-foot Emanation originating 
from you regains Hit Points equal the number rolled 
plus your Intelligence modifier. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t do so again until the start of your 
next turn. 


=== PAGE 9 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 9 
PSYKINETIC 
Mold Psionic Force for Creation and Destruction 
A Psykinetic controls their psionic powers like a 
malleable force. They bend their telekinetic energies 
into sturdy barriers and strike with the force of a 
battering ram.  
DESIGN NOTE: PSYKINETIC UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its last 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Stronger Telekinesis is a new feature. 
• Telekinetic Techniques now allows the Psion to use 
Telekinetic Propel more than any other Psion. 
• Destructive Trance (formerly Empowered Attack 
Mode) no longer uses Psionic Modes, and you can 
add one Psionic Energy Die to your spell damage 
without expending it. 
• Rebounding Field grants Temporary Hit Points 
whether the target fails or succeeds on its saving 
throw. 
• Enhanced Telekinetic Crush now adds the Psionic 
Energy Die expended to the modified spell’s 
damage. 
• Heightened Telekinesis now only requires Psionic 
Energy Dice and doesn’t expend a spell slot. 
LEVEL 3: PSYKINETIC SPELLS 
When you reach a Psion level specified in the 
Psykinetic Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared. 
PSYKINETIC SPELLS 
Psion Level Spells 
3 Cloud of Daggers, Levitate, Shield, 
Thunderwave 
5 Slow, Telekinetic Crush (included in 
this UA)  
7 Otiluke’s Resilient Sphere, Stone 
Shape 
9 Telekinesis, Wall of Force 
 
LEVEL 3: STRONGER TELEKINESIS 
When you cast Mage Hand, its range increases by 30 
feet when you cast it, and the hand can carry up to 
20 pounds. 
LEVEL 3: TELEKINETIC TECHNIQUES 
When you use Telekinetic Propel, you can roll 1d4 
and use the number rolled instead of expending a 
Psionic Energy Die. 
 In addition, when a target fails the saving throw 
against your Telekinetic Propel, you can impose one 
of the following effects on that target. 
 Boost. The target’s Speed increases by 10 feet 
until the start of your next turn. 
 Disorient. The target can’t make Opportunity 
Attacks until the start of its next turn. 
 Telekinetic Bolt. The target takes Force damage 
equal to the number rolled on the Psionic Energy 
Die. 
LEVEL 6: DESTRUCTIVE TRANCE 
At the start of your turn, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die to enter a destructive state. For the next 
10 minutes, you gain a Fly Speed of 20 feet and can 
hover, and when you cast a Psion spell that expends 
a spell slot, you can roll your Psionic Energy Die and 
add the number rolled to one damage roll of that 
spell. This roll doesn’t expend the Psionic Energy 
Die.  
LEVEL 6: REBOUNDING FIELD 
When you cast Shield in response to being hit by an 
attack roll and cause the triggering attack to miss, 
you can expend one Psionic Energy Die to launch the 
force back at the attacker. The attacker makes a 
Dexterity saving throw. Roll one Psionic Energy Die. 
On a failed save, the attacker takes Force damage 
equal to the amount rolled plus your Intelligence 
modifier. On a successful save, the attacker takes 
half as much damage only. Whether the target fails 
or succeeds on the saving throw, you gain 
Temporary Hit Points equal to the amount of 
damage dealt.  
LEVEL 10: ENHANCED TELEKINETIC CRUSH 
When you cast Telekinetic Crush, you can expend one 
Psionic Energy Die to modify the spell so that 
whether a creature fails or succeeds on the saving 
throw against the spell, its Speed is halved until the 
start of your next turn. In addition, you can roll the 
expended Psionic Energy Die and add the number 
rolled to one damage roll of the spell. 
LEVEL 14: HEIGHTENED TELEKINESIS 
You can cast Telekinesis without expending a spell 
slot by instead expending four Psionic Energy Dice. 
When you cast Telekinesis without expending a spell 
slot using this feature, you can modify the spell so 
that it doesn’t require Concentration. If you do so, 
the spell’s duration becomes 1 minute for that 
casting, and you can target Gargantuan creatures 
and objects. 


=== PAGE 10 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 10 
TELEPATH 
Master Tactics in the Landscape of the Mind 
Telepaths are masters of mind magic. They use their 
psionic powers for all matters of the mind, whether 
they bolster the mental defenses of allies or probe 
the thoughts of others undetected. A telepath can be 
a bastion of psionic aid or a crafty manipulator. 
DESIGN NOTE: TELEPATH UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its last 
appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Mind Infiltrator now expends only one Psionic 
Energy Die. 
• Telepath Spells has new spells. 
• Telepathic Distraction is a new feature replacing 
Telepathic Hub. 
• Bulwark Mind (formerly Empowered Defense Mode) 
no longer uses Psionic Modes, and you can add one 
Psionic Energy Die to a saving throw without 
expending it. 
• Potent Thoughts now also increases the range of 
your telepathy. 
• Scramble Minds now doesn’t expend a spell slot and 
allows the Psion to choose the behavior of the target 
instead of rolling dice. 
LEVEL 3: MIND INFILTRATOR 
When you cast Detect Thoughts, you can expend one 
Psionic Energy Die to modify the spell so that the 
spell doesn’t require spell components or 
Concentration. In addition, when you use the Read 
Thoughts effect of the spell, the target doesn’t know 
you’re probing its mind if it fails the Wisdom saving 
throw.  
LEVEL 3: TELEPATH SPELLS 
When you reach a Psion level specified in the 
Telepath Spells table, you thereafter always have the 
listed spells prepared. 
TELEPATH SPELLS 
Psion Level Spells 
3 Bane, Command, Detect Thoughts, 
Mind Spike 
5 Counterspell, Slow 
7 Compulsion, Confusion 
9 Modify Memory, Yolande’s Regal 
Presence 
 
LEVEL 3: TELEPATHIC DISTRACTION 
When a creature you can see within range of your 
telepathy hits with an attack roll, you can take a 
Reaction to roll one Psionic Energy Die and subtract 
the number rolled from attack roll, potentially 
causing the attack to miss. The die is expended only 
if the target misses the attack. 
LEVEL 6: BULWARK MIND 
At the start of your turn, you can expend one Psionic 
Energy Die to strengthen your mind and enter a 
fortified state. For the next 10 minutes, you have 
Resistance to Psychic damage; and whenever you 
make an Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma saving 
throw, you add a roll of your Psionic Energy Die to 
the save. Rolling the Psionic Energy Die doesn’t 
expend it. You can’t use this benefit if you have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
LEVEL 6: POTENT THOUGHTS 
You have telepathy with a range of 60 feet. In 
addition, you add your Intelligence modifier to the 
damage you deal with any Psion cantrip. 
LEVEL 10: TELEPATHIC BOLSTERING 
When you or a creature you can see within range of 
your telepathy fails an ability check or misses with 
an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to expend one 
Psionic Energy Die. Roll the die and add the number 
rolled to the d20, potentially turning a failed check 
into a success or a miss into a hit. The Psionic 
Energy Die is expended only if the check succeeds or 
the attack hits. 
LEVEL 14: SCRAMBLE MINDS 
You can cast Confusion without expending a spell 
slot by instead expending four Psionic Energy Dice. 
When you cast Confusion without a spell slot using 
this feature, you can  modify the spell so that the 
radius of the spell’s Sphere becomes 30 feet and you 
can choose one creature you can see in the spell’s 
area to automatically succeed on their saving throw 
against the spell.  
 In addition, when a creature under the effect of 
the spell starts its turn, you choose their behavior  
from the table for the turn instead of the creature 
rolling to determine its behavior. 


=== PAGE 11 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 11 
SPELLS 
Spells are presented in alphabetical order. If a spell 
includes the Artificer in the parentheses after the 
spell’s school of magic, that spell is added to the 
Artificer’s spell list (use the most recent version of 
the Artificer that appeared in Unearthed Arcana).  
DESIGN NOTE: SPELL UPDATES 
Several spells from Tasha’s Cauldron of Everything 
return in this article, alongside some new spells. Here 
are the main updates to spells in this article:  
General Updates. Returning spells have been refined 
and brought in line with revisions in the 2024 
Player’s Handbook.  
New Spells. New spells in this article— Bleeding 
Darkness, Ectoplasmic Trail, Life Inversion Field, 
Summon Astral Entity, and Telekinetic Crush— add 
new options to various classes’ spell lists. The Psion 
also receives unique spells: Ego Whip, Life Siphon, 
Psionic Blast, and Thought Form.  
Telekinetic Fling. This cantrip no longer requires 
ammunition and doesn’t destroy the object. 
Tasha’s Mind Whip. The spell now restricts the target’s 
turn options as before. 
ABI-DALZIM’S HORRID WILTING 
Level 8 Necromancy (Psion, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 150 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a bit of sponge) 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You draw the moisture from every creature in a 30-
foot Cube centered on a point within range. Each 
creature in that area makes a Constitution saving 
throw, taking 12d8 Necrotic damage on a failed save 
or half as much damage on a successful one. 
Constructs automatically succeed at the save, and 
Plant creatures automatically fail the save.  
 Nonmagical plants in the area that aren’t 
creatures, such as trees and shrubs, wither and die 
instantly. 
BLEEDING DARKNESS 
Level 3 Evocation (Psion, Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a vial of rare ink worth 50+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
You create an inky void in a 10-foot-radius Sphere at 
a point you can see above yourself within range. 
 When you cast the spell, magical Darkness pours 
from the sphere, filling a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-tall 
Cylinder originating from the Sphere until the start 
of your next turn. The Cylinder is Difficult Terrain, 
and no light— magical or otherwise—can illuminate 
the area. When the Darkness appears, each creature 
in the area must succeed on a Constitution saving 
throw or take 3d8 Cold damage and have the 
Blinded condition until the end of its next turn. A 
creature also makes this save when it enters the 
spell’s area for the first time on a turn or ends its 
turn there. A creature makes this save only once per 
turn. 
 Until the spell ends, you can take a Magic action to 
move the Sphere up to 20 feet horizontally and 
cause the Sphere to pour magical Darkness until the 
start of your next turn. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
increases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 3. 
ECTOPLASMIC TRAIL 
Level 2 Necromancy (Psion, Warlock) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You cloak yourself in spirits that leave ectoplasm in 
your wake until the end of your turn. While cloaked, 
you can move through occupied spaces as if they 
were Difficult Terrain, and moving doesn’t provoke 
Opportunity Attacks. If you end your turn in such a 
space, you are returned to the last unoccupied space 
you were in. 
 While cloaked, whenever you enter the space of a 
creature, the creature becomes covered in 
ectoplasm until the end of your next turn. A creature 
covered in ectoplasm has its Speed reduced by 10 
feet and takes 2d8 Necrotic damage at the start of its 
turn. A creature can be covered in ectoplasm only 
once during a turn. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. While cloaked, 
your Speed increases by 10 feet for each spell slot 
level above 2. 
EGO WHIP 
Level 2 Enchantment Spell (Psion) 
Casting Time: Reaction, which you take when a creature 
you can see within 30 feet of yourself makes a 
Charisma-based ability check or saving throw 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 
The creature makes Charisma saving throw. On a 
failed save, the target must subtract 1d8 from the 
ability check or saving throw. 


=== PAGE 12 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 12 
ENEMIES ABOUND 
Level 3 Enchantment (Bard, Psion, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
Choose a creature you can see within range. The 
target must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw 
or have the Frightened condition for the duration. 
While Frightened, the target loses the ability to 
distinguish friend from foe and is affected in the 
following ways: 
• The target regards all creatures it can see as 
enemies.  
• Whenever the target chooses a creature other 
than itself for an attack, spell, or other ability, it 
must choose at random from among the 
creatures it can see within range of that attack, 
spell, or other ability.  
• The target must make an Opportunity Attack each 
time it is able to. 
Each time the target takes damage, it makes another 
Intelligence saving throw. On a successful save, the 
spell ends. 
INTELLECT FORTRESS  
Level 3 Abjuration (Artificer, Bard, Psion, Sorcerer, 
Warlock, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 30 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
For the duration, one willing creature you can see 
within range has Resistance to Psychic damage as 
well as Advantage on Intelligence, Wisdom, and 
Charisma saving throws. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 3. 
LIFE INVERSION FIELD 
Level 4 Abjuration (Cleric, Psion, Sorcerer) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
An aura radiates from you in a 30-foot Emanation 
for the duration. When you create the aura, you 
regain 4d8 Hit Points. Whenever you regain Hit 
Points, you can choose a creature you can see in the 
aura and force it to make a Constitution saving 
throw. On a failed save, the creature takes Necrotic 
damage equal to half the amount of Hit Points you 
regained (round up). A creature makes this save 
only once per turn. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The healing 
increase by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 4. 
LIFE SIPHON 
Level 1 Evocation (Psion) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You fire an orb of psionic energy fueled by your life 
force at a creature you can see within range. Make a 
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the 
target takes 1d10 Psychic damage and you can 
expend one Hit Point Die to increase the damage by 
1d10. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
increases by 1d10 and the number of Hit Dice you 
can expend increases by one for each spell slot level 
above 1. 


=== PAGE 13 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 13 
MENTAL PRISON 
Level 6 Illusion (Bard, Psion, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: S 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
You attempt to bind a creature within an illusory cell 
that only it perceives. One creature you can see 
within range must succeed on an Intelligence saving 
throw or take 8d10 Psychic damage and have the 
Charmed condition for the duration. On a successful 
save, the target takes half damage only and the spell 
ends. 
 While Charmed, the target has the Restrained 
condition and perceives the area around its space as 
dangerous to it in some way you create. You might 
cause the target to perceive itself as being 
surrounded by fire, floating razors, or hideous maws 
filled with dripping teeth. Whatever form the 
illusion takes, the target can’t see or hear anything 
beyond it. If the target is moved from the illusion, 
makes a melee attack through it, or reaches any part 
of its body through it, the target takes 5d10 Psychic 
damage and the spell ends. 
PSIONIC BLAST 
Level 6 Evocation (Psion, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, S, M 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You unleash a concussive burst of psionic energy. 
Each creature in a 60-foot Cone originating from you 
makes an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, 
the creature takes 6d8 Psychic damage and has the 
Stunned condition until the start of your next turn. 
On a successful save, the creature takes half as much 
damage only. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
increases by 1d8 for each spell slot level above 6. 
PSYCHIC SCREAM 
Level 9 Enchantment (Bard, Psion, Sorcerer, Warlock) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 90 feet 
Components: S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You unleash the power of your mind to blast the 
intellect of up to ten creatures of your choice that 
you can see within range. Creatures that have an 
Intelligence score of 2 or lower are unaffected. 
 Each target must make an Intelligence saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target takes 14d6 
Psychic damage and has the Stunned condition. On a 
successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage only. If the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points 
by this damage, its head explodes if it has one. 
 At the end of each of its turns, the Stunned target 
repeats the save, ending the condition on itself on a 
success. 
RAULOTHIM’S PSYCHIC LANCE 
Level 4 Enchantment (Bard, Psion, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You unleash a shimmering lance of psychic power 
from your forehead at a creature that you can see 
within range. Alternatively, you can utter a 
creature’s name (a pseudonym, title, or nickname 
doesn’t work). If the named target is within range, it 
becomes the spell’s target even if you can’t see it. If 
the named target isn’t within range or you use an 
invalid name, the lance dissipates without effect. 
 The target must make an Intelligence saving 
throw. On a failed save, the target takes 7d6 Psychic 
damage and has the Incapacitated condition until 
the start of your next turn. On a successful save, the 
target takes half as much damage only. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 4. 


=== PAGE 14 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 14 
SUMMON ASTRAL ENTITY 
Level 3 Conjuration (Psion, Sorcerer, Warlock, 
Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 90 feet 
Components: V, S, M (a gem or crystal worth 300+ GP) 
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour 
You call forth the spirit of a psionic entity. It 
manifests in an unoccupied space that you can see 
within range and uses the Psionic Spirit stat block. 
When you cast the spell, choose Crystal Entity, 
Ectoplasmic Entity, or Ghostly Entity. The creature 
resembles an astral entity of that kind, which 
determines certain details in its stat block. The 
creature disappears when it drops to 0 Hit Points or 
when the spell ends. 
 The creature is an ally to you and your allies. In 
combat, the creature shares your Initiative count, 
but it takes its turn immediately after yours. It obeys 
your verbal commands (no action required by you). 
If you don’t issue any, it takes the Dodge action and 
uses its movement to avoid danger. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. Use the spell 
slot’s level for the spell’s level in the stat block. 
PSIONIC SPIRIT 
Medium Aberration, Neutral 
AC 11 + the spell’s level + 2 (Crystal Entity only) 
HP 40 + 10 for each spell level above 3 
Speed 30 ft.; Fly 30 ft. (Ghostly Entity only) 
 MOD SAVE   MOD SAVE   MOD SAVE 
STR 16  +3 +3 DEX 12  +1 +1 CON 11  +0 +0 
INT 16  +3 +3 WIS 12  +1 +1 CHA 10  +0 +0 
Immunities Psychic 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11 
Languages Deep Speech, Telepathy 60 ft. 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 
TRAITS 
Incorporeal Passage (Ectoplasmic Entity and Ghostly 
Entity Only). The spirit can move through other creatures 
and objects as if they were Difficult Terrain. If the spirit 
ends its turn in such a space, it is shunted to the nearest 
unoccupied space and takes 1d10 Force damage for every 
5 feet traveled. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack. The spirit makes a number of attacks equal 
to half this spell’s level (round down). 
Crystal Strike (Crystal Entity Only). Melee Attack Roll: 
Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. Hit: 
1d10 + 3 + the spell’s level Piercing damage. 
Ectoplasmic Splash (Ectoplasmic Entity Only). Ranged 
Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 
30 feet. Hit: 1d6 + 3 + the spell’s level Psychic damage. Hit 
or Miss: Each creature in a 5-foot Emanation originating 
from and including the target has its Speed reduced by 5 
feet until the end of its next turn. 
Ephemeral Ray (Ghostly Entity Only). Ranged Attack Roll: 
Bonus equals your spell attack modifier, range 120 ft. Hit: 
1d8 + 3 + the spell’s level Psychic damage.  
REACTIONS 
Shard Swarm (Crystal Entity Only). Trigger: The spirit is 
hit by a melee attack roll. Response: The spirit halves the 
damage (round down) it takes from that attack. The spirit 
can then teleport to an unoccupied space it can see within 
30 feet of itself. 


=== PAGE 15 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 15 
TASHA’S MIND WHIP 
Level 2 Enchantment (Psion, Sorcerer, Wizard) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 90 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You psychically lash out at one creature you can see 
within range. The target must make an Intelligence 
saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 3d6 
Psychic damage and can’t make Opportunity Attacks 
until the end of its next turn. On its next turn, it must 
choose whether it gets a move, an action, or a Bonus 
Action; it gets only one of the three. On a successful 
save, the target takes half as much damage only. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. You can target 
one additional creature for each spell slot level 
above 2. 
TELEKINETIC CRUSH 
Level 3 Transmutation (Psion, Sorcerer, Warlock) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 120 feet 
Components: V 
Duration: Instantaneous 
You create a field of crushing telekinetic force in a 
30-foot Cube within range. Each creature in the area 
makes a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target takes 5d6 Force damage and has the Prone 
condition. On a successful save, the target takes half 
as much damage only. 
 Using a Higher-Level Spell Slot. The damage 
increases by 1d6 for each spell slot level above 3. 
TELEKINETIC FLING 
Evocation Cantrip (Psion) 
Casting Time: Action 
Range: 60 feet 
Components: S 
Duration: Instantaneous 
Choose one nonmagical object weighing 1 to 5 
pounds within 10 feet of you that isn’t being worn or 
carried to wreathe in psionic energy and fire at a 
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack 
against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 
Force damage. On a hit or miss, the object falls to the 
ground undamaged. 
 Cantrip Upgrade. The damage increases by 1d10 
when you reach levels 5 (2d10), 11 (3d10), and 17 
(4d10). 
THOUGHT FORM 
Level 6 Transmutation (Psion) 
Casting Time: Bonus Action 
Range: Self 
Components: V, M (brain matter in a vessel worth 500+ 
GP)  
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute 
You briefly transform into a psionic spirit. You gain 
the following benefits until the spell ends. 
 Ghostly Form. You have Immunity to Poison and 
Psychic damage, and you have Immunity to the 
Exhaustion condition. 
 Incorporeal Movement. You have a Fly Speed of 
60 feet and can hover. You can move through 
occupied spaces as if they were Difficult Terrain. If 
you end your turn in such a space, you take 1d10 
Force damage. If the spell ends in such a space, you 
are returned to the last unoccupied space you were 
in. 
 Psionic Recharge. As a Magic action, you can 
touch a creature (which can be yourself) and roll 
1d6. The creature regains one expended spell slot, 
the level of which equals half the number rolled 
(round up) or lower. Once a creature regains a spell 
slot from this spell, that creature can’t do so again 
until it finishes a Long Rest. 
 