

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2026 
VILLAINOUS OPTIONS UPDATE 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material here 
uses the rules in the Player’s Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents revised versions of these 
three subclasses, incorporating player feedback 
from the initial playtest in which they appeared: 
• Druid (Circle of the Titan) 
• Fighter (Hell Knight) 
• Sorcerer (Demonic Sorcery) 
This document also includes Origin feats and Epic 
Boon feats. 
CONTENT WARNING 
This material contains descriptions of body horror, 
disease, and insects that some readers might find 
disturbing. 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. 
The options here are experimental and in draft form. 
They aren’t officially part of the game. Your feedback 
will help determine whether we adopt them as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try out 
this material in play. To play with this material, you 
may either incorporate it into your campaign or run 
one or more special playtest sessions. For such a 
session, you may create an adventure of your own or 
use a short adventure from a source like Dragon 
Delves. 
 Power Level. The character options you read here 
might be more or less powerful than options in the 
Player’s Handbook. If a design survives playtesting, we 
adjust its power to the desirable level before 
publication. This means an option could be more or 
less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback 
on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D 
Beyond. If we make this material official, it will be 
refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear 
in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way you 
can help shape the future of D&D! 
SUBCLASSES 
This section presents the following subclasses: Circle 
of the Titan, Hell Knight, and Demonic Sorcery. 
CIRCLE OF THE TITAN (DRUID) 
Wreak Colossal Havoc 
When civilization violates the natural world—by 
deforesting ancient groves, polluting sacred waters, 
or hunting wildlife to the brink of extinction—
Druids of the Circle of the Titan intervene. Druids of 
this order believe that for nature to thrive, society 
must sometimes fall. To this end, they assume 
towering, monstrous forms to mete out cataclysmic 
retribution and forcibly restore the natural order. 
LEVEL 3: CIRCLE OF THE TITAN SPELLS 
When you reach a Druid level specified in the Circle 
of the Titan Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared. 
 In addition, you can cast the spells from this 
feature while you’re in your Titan Form. 
CIRCLE OF THE TITAN SPELLS 
Druid Level Prepared Spells 
3 Enlarge/Reduce, Thaumaturgy, 
Thunderwave 
5 Fear 
7 Fire Shield 
9 Destructive Wave 
 
LEVEL 3: TITAN FORM 
When you use Wild Shape, you can adopt a Titan 
Form, choosing from the Behemoth, Leviathan, and 
Insectoid stat blocks presented later in this 
subclass’s description. You can stay in a Titan Form 
for 10 minutes, instead of a number of hours. 
 Each Titan Form gains additional benefits when 
you reach the specified Druid Levels, as noted in its 
respective stat block. Features that apply to your 
Beast forms also apply to your Titan Form. 
 You determine what your Titan Form looks like. 
Roll on or choose from the Titan Appearance table to 
inspire aspects of your form’s appearance. 


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
TITAN APPEARANCE 
1d4 Behemoth Leviathan Insectoid 
1 Reflective 
scales 
Many-
tentacled 
Iridescent wings 
2 Multiple 
heads 
Translucent 
and blob-
like 
Compound eyes 
3 Reptilian 
tail 
Lamprey-
like mouth 
Chitinous horns 
4 Furry and 
simian 
Serpentine 
body 
Bioluminescent 
exoskeleton 
 
LEVEL 6: DIRE IMPACT 
Your Titan Form brings greater devastation, gaining 
the following benefits. 
 Elemental Rend. Whenever you hit with your 
Titan Form’s Rend attack, you can cause it to deal 
your choice of Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or Thunder 
damage rather than its normal damage type. 
 Shock Wave. Once per turn, immediately after you 
move at least half your Speed, you can create a shock 
wave in a 10-foot Emanation originating from you. 
Each creature in the Emanation must succeed on a 
Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC 
or have the Prone condition. 
LEVEL 10: PRIMAL HAVOC 
The unbridled power of nature surges within you, 
granting you the following benefits. 
 Huge Size. You can choose to become Huge when 
assuming your Titan Form if you’re in a big enough 
space. 
 Toughened Hide. Immediately after you assume a 
Huge or larger Titan Form, you can expend a level 1+ 
spell slot. For the duration of the form, you gain a 
bonus to your AC equal to half the expended spell 
slot’s level (round up). 
 Above It All. While you are Huge or larger in your 
Titan Form, Difficult Terrain caused by heavy snow, 
ice, rubble, or undergrowth doesn’t cost you extra 
movement. 
LEVEL 14: MONSTROUS APPETITE 
Your transformation embodies the vast size and 
terror of nature’s titans. You gain the following 
benefits. 
 Gargantuan Size. You can choose to become 
Gargantuan when assuming your Titan Form if 
you’re in a big enough space. 
 Grappling Rend. Once per turn, while you are 
Huge or larger and hit a creature with your Titan 
Form’s Rend attack, you can give the target the 
Grappled condition (escape DC equals your spell 
save DC). You can have only one target grappled in 
this way at a time. 
 Swallow. As a Bonus Action while you are 
Gargantuan, choose one Large or smaller creature 
Grappled by you. The target makes a Strength saving 
throw against your spell save DC. On a failure, you 
swallow the target, and the Grappled condition ends 
on it. A swallowed creature has the Blinded and 
Restrained conditions, has Total Cover against 
attacks and other effects outside of your stomach, 
and takes Acid damage at the start of each of your 
turns. To determine this damage, roll a number of 
d12s equal to your Wisdom modifier. 
 The number of creatures you can have swallowed 
at a time equals your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 
one creature). You must maintain Concentration to 
hold swallowed creatures in your stomach. If you 
lose Concentration or leave your Titan Form, you 
regurgitate all swallowed creatures, each of which 
falls in a space within 10 feet of you and has the 
Prone condition. 
BEHEMOTH 
Large, Huge (Requires Druid Level 10+), or Gargantuan 
(Requires Druid Level 14+); Your Creature Type and 
Alignment Don’t Change 
AC 13 + your Wisdom Modifier 
Temp HP 4 times your Druid level 
Speed 40 ft., Climb 40 ft.  
Str., Dex. Your Strength and Dexterity scores are equal to 
your Wisdom score. 
Con., Int., Wis., Cha. Your Constitution, Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma don’t change. 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft. 
Languages Your languages don’t change. 
CR — (Your Proficiency Bonus  doesn’t change.) 
TRAITS 
Siege Monster. You deal double damage to objects and 
structures. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack (Requires Druid Level 5+). You make two 
Rend attacks. 
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier 
Slashing damage. This damage increases by 1d8 when you 
reach Druid levels 6 (2d8) and 12 (3d8). 
Incandescent Breath. You expend a level 1+ spell slot. 
Dexterity Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, 
each creature in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long Line. Failure: 
2d10 Radiant damage per level of the spell slot expended. 
Success: Half damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Rampager (Requires Druid Level 10+). You expend a level 
1+ spell slot and move up to half your Speed without 
provoking Opportunity Attacks. When you enter the space 


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
of an enemy that is at least two sizes smaller than you for 
the first time on a turn, that creature is subjected to the 
following effect. Strength Saving Throw: DC equals your 
spell save DC. Failure: The target has the Prone condition. 
If the target already has the Prone condition, it instead 
takes 1d10 Bludgeoning damage per level of the spell slot 
expended. 
LEVIATHAN 
Large, Huge (Requires Druid Level 10+), or Gargantuan 
(Requires Druid Level 14+); Your Creature Type and 
Alignment Don’t Change 
AC 13 + your Wisdom Modifier 
Temp HP 4 times your Druid level 
Speed 40 ft., Swim 40 ft.  
Str., Dex. Your Strength and Dexterity scores are equal to 
your Wisdom score. 
Con., Int., Wis., Cha. Your Constitution, Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma don’t change. 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft. 
Languages Your languages don’t change. 
CR — (Your Proficiency Bonus doesn’t change.) 
TRAITS 
Amphibious. You can breathe air and water. 
Siege Monster. You deal double damage to objects and 
structures. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack (Requires Druid Level 5+). You make two 
Rend attacks. 
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier 
Bludgeoning damage. This damage increases by 1d8 when 
you reach Druid levels 6 (2d8) and 12 (3d8). 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Toxic Deluge (Requires Druid Level 10+). You expend a 
level 1+ spell slot and emit a toxic miasma. Constitution 
Saving Throw: DC equals your spell save DC, each creature 
of your choice in a 10-foot Emanation originating from 
yourself. Failure: 2d4 Poison damage per level of the spell 
slot expended, and the target has the Poisoned condition 
until the start of your next turn. 
 
INSECTOID 
Large, Huge (Requires Druid Level 10+), or Gargantuan 
(Requires Druid Level 14+); Your Creature Type and 
Alignment Don’t Change 
AC 13 + your Wisdom Modifier 
Temp HP 4 times your Druid level 
Speed 40 ft., Fly 40 ft. (requires Druid Level 10+) 
Str., Dex. Your Strength and Dexterity scores are equal to 
your Wisdom score. 
Con., Int., Wis., Cha. Your Constitution, Intelligence, 
Wisdom, and Charisma don’t change. 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft. 
Languages Your languages don’t change. 
CR — (Your Proficiency Bonus doesn’t change.) 
TRAITS 
Flyby (Requires Druid Level 10+). You don’t provoke an 
Opportunity Attack when you fly out of an enemy’s reach. 
Siege Monster. You deal double damage to objects and 
structures. 
ACTIONS 
Multiattack (Requires Level 5+). You make two Rend 
attacks. 
Rend. Melee Attack Roll: Bonus equals your spell attack 
modifier, reach 10 ft. Hit: 1d8 plus your Wisdom modifier 
Piercing damage. This damage increases by 1d8 when you 
reach Druid levels 6 (2d8) and 12 (3d8). 
Energizing Pollen. You expend a level 1+ spell slot and can 
move up to half your Speed without provoking 
Opportunity attacks while emitting a cloud of healing 
pollen. When you move within 5 feet of another creature 
during this movement, you can restore a number of Hit 
Points equal to 2d6 per level of the spell slot expended. A 
creature can receive this healing only once per turn. 
  


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
HELL KNIGHT (FIGHTER) 
Inflict Hellish Wounds and Damn Enemies 
Hell Knights are the champions of archdevils and 
other high-ranking fiends of the Nine Hells, such as 
cambions and night hags. Armed with the techniques 
of the Nine Hells’ fiercest warriors, Hell Knights 
inflict infernal wounds and fight with the tenacity of 
a devil. 
 Devils and other sinister figures employ Hell 
Knights to enact their will across the multiverse. 
Some Hell Knights are tasked with punishing 
creatures that violate infernal contracts or flee their 
consequences. Others act as interplanar bounty 
hunters, hastening the journey of wicked souls to the 
River Styx. 
 A Hell Knight’s relationship with the Nine Hells is 
transactional. Archdevils see Hell Knights as an 
investment, and Hell Knights benefit in turn. The 
Hell Knight Pursuits table lists reasons why a Fighter 
might become a Hell Knight. 
HELL KNIGHT PURSUITS 
1d6 You Became a Hell Knight Because You …  
1 Desired treasures only the Nine Hells could 
grant you. 
2 Hungered for power beyond mortal bounds. 
3 Made a wager with a devil— and lost. 
4 Sacrificed your soul to spare someone else’s. 
5 Sought vengeance on an adversary who 
wronged you deeply. 
6 Were fooled by fine print in an infernal 
contract. 
 
LEVEL 3: DIABOLICAL GIFT 
As a soldier for the agents of the Nine Hells, you’ve 
been given fiendish powers. You gain the following 
benefits. 
 Devil’s Sight. You can see normally in Dim Light 
and Darkness—both magical and nonmagical —
within 120 feet of yourself. 
 Devil’s Talents. You know Infernal, the language 
of devils. If you already know Infernal, you learn 
another language of your choice. 
 You also gain proficiency in one of these skills of 
your choice: Deception, Performance, or Sleight of 
Hand. 
LEVEL 3: HELL-FORGED WEAPON 
When you take the Attack action, you can imbue 
each weapon that you are holding with hellfire, 
transforming it into a Hell-Forged Weapon. It 
remains transformed in this way until you use this 
feature again, you have the Unconscious condition, 
or the weapon is more than 5 feet away from you for 
1 minute or more. You can also end this effect early 
(no action required). 
 While you wield a Hell-Forged Weapon, it sheds 
Dim Light in a 5-foot radius, and whenever you deal 
damage with the weapon, it can deal your choice of 
Cold, Fire, or Necrotic damage or its normal damage 
type (choose when you imbue the weapon with 
hellfire). 
LEVEL 3: INFERNAL WOUND 
Your Hell-Forged Weapon can inflict infernal 
wounds. 
 Infernal Wound Die. You have an Infernal Wound 
Die, which is a d6. 
 Inflicting Infernal Wounds. When you hit a 
creature with your Hell-Forged Weapon, you can 
deal extra damage equal to one roll of your Infernal 
Wound Die. This extra damage is of the same type 
you chose when you imbued the weapon with 
hellfire. You also give the target an infernal wound if 
it doesn’t already have one. 
 While wounded in this way, the target takes 
damage of the chosen damage type equal to one roll 
of your Infernal Wound Die at the start of each of its 
turns. The wound lasts for 1 minute, until the target 
regains Hit Points, or until the target or a creature 
within 5 feet of the target takes an action to stanch 
the wound.  
 You can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Constitution modifier (minimum of once). 
You regain all expended uses when you finish a 
Short or Long Rest. 
LEVEL 7: ADVANCED WOUNDS 
When you roll your Infernal Wound Die, you can 
apply one of the following effects. If you roll a 6 on 
the Infernal Wound Die, the effect you choose has an 
additional Devil’s Luck effect. Once you use this 
feature, you can’t do so again until the start of your 
next turn. 
 Purulence of Minauros. Caustic pus erupts from 
the wound. Each enemy in a 5-foot Emanation 
originating from the target takes Acid damage equal 
to your Constitution modifier, and the target has the 
Poisoned condition until the end of its next turn. 
Devil’s Luck: Each creature that takes Acid damage 
from this effect has a –1 penalty to its AC until the 
end of your next turn. 
 Rupture of Cania. The wound ruptures with a 
spurt of arcane energy. The target takes Force 
damage equal to your Constitution modifier. Devil’s 
Luck: The target subtracts 1d6 from the next saving 
throw it makes before the end of your next turn. 
 Stygian Gangrene. Infernal rime spreads from the 
wound. The target takes Cold damage equal to your 
Constitution modifier, and it can’t take Reactions 
until the start of its next turn. Devil’s Luck: The 
target’s Speed is halved until the end of its next turn. 


=== PAGE 5 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
LEVEL 7: INFERNAL EQUIPMENT 
Your armor and weapons embody infernal 
armaments forged in the fires of Avernus, granting 
you the following benefits. 
 Infernal Resilience. Whenever you finish a Short 
or Long Rest, choose a damage type: Cold, Fire, or 
Necrotic. While wearing Heavy armor or wielding a 
Shield, you have Resistance to that damage type 
until you choose a different one with this feature. 
 Unholy Power. When you roll your Infernal 
Wound Die, you can treat a roll of 1 as a 6. 
LEVEL 10: HELLFIRE SURGE 
When you use your Action Surge while holding a 
Hell-Forged Weapon, you erupt with hellfire in a 20-
foot Emanation originating from you that lasts until 
the end of your next turn. Whenever a creature 
suffering an infernal wound starts its turn within the 
Emanation, it takes damage equal to two rolls of 
your Infernal Wound Die instead of one. 
LEVEL 15: DEVIL’S MISFORTUNE 
When a creature with an infernal wound hits you 
with an attack roll, you can take a Reaction to roll 
your Infernal Wound Die and reduce the damage 
taken by the number rolled. On a roll of 6, roll your 
Infernal Wound Die again (to a maximum of three 
rolls total), and reduce the damage taken by the total 
rolled. 
 In addition, if the attack is a Critical Hit, it becomes 
a normal hit. 
LEVEL 18: INFERNAL BARGAIN 
When you roll a 6 on your Infernal Wound Die three 
or more times before the start of your next turn, you 
gain Heroic Inspiration. You can use Heroic 
Inspiration in the following way. 
 Infernal Inspiration. If a creature you can see 
within 120 feet of you rolls a d20 for a D20 Test, you 
can expend your Heroic Inspiration to force the 
target to reroll the d20.  
 If the number rolled causes the target to succeed 
on the D20 Test, you regain an expended use of 
Indomitable or Second Wind (your choice). If the 
number rolled causes the target to fail the D20 Test, 
you lose Hit Points equal to 3d6 plus your Fighter 
level. 
DEMONIC SORCERY (SORCERER) 
Summon the Powers of the Abyss 
The corruptive magic of demons courses through 
you, making you a conduit for the infinite layers of 
the Abyss and their horrors. Your gift might stem 
from distant demonic ancestry, a fated encounter 
with a demon that cursed you, or a brush with the 
dark hunger of the Abyss. 
 The Abyss is a plane of wickedness and disorder, 
and this chaos echoes in your innate magic. Abyssal 
energy erupts from you, warping your body and 
surroundings in tandem with your sorcery. 
 These Abyssal eruptions manifest in strange and 
gruesome ways. Roll on or choose from the Abyssal 
Manifestations table to inspire how your connection 
to the Abyss might manifest when you channel your 
demonic power. 
ABYSSAL MANIFESTATIONS 
1d6 Manifestation 
1 Abyssal fissures mar your flesh, revealing 
windows into a vast demonic realm. 
2 Insects writhe beneath your skin and escape 
from your mouth, nose, and ears. 
3 Sheets of scorched skin peel from your body. 
4 Your flesh bubbles and froths like a toxic bog. 
5 Your fingers or other extremities discolor as if 
frostbitten. 
6 You grow a second head. (This has no impact 
on your game statistics.) 
 
LEVEL 3: ABYSSAL RUPTURE 
When you use Innate Sorcery, you create a rupture 
into the Abyss, which fills a 10-foot-radius Sphere 
centered on a point you can see within 30 feet of 
yourself with Abyssal energy. When you activate 
your Innate Sorcery and as a Bonus Action while 
your Innate Sorcery is active, you can choose one of 
the following options. While the rupture persists, 
you can move the center of the Sphere to a point you 
can see within 30 feet of yourself at the start of each 
of your turns.  
 Demonic Lash. Make a melee spell attack against a 
target within 5 feet of the rupture. On a hit, the 
target takes 1d8 Slashing damage, and if it is Large 
or smaller, you can pull it up to 10 feet toward the 
center of the Sphere. 
 Terrifying Screams. Each creature in the rupture 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw against 
your spell save DC or take 1d4 Psychic damage. 


=== PAGE 6 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 6 
LEVEL 3: DEMONIC SPELLS 
When you reach a Sorcerer level specified in the 
Demonic Spells table, you thereafter always have the 
listed spells prepared. 
DEMONIC SPELLS 
Sorcerer 
Level 
 
Spells 
3 Bane, Dissonant Whispers, Spike Growth, 
Web 
5 Bestow Curse, Dispel Magic 
7 Giant Insect, Hallucinatory Terrain 
9 Contact Other Plane, Modify Memory 
 
LEVEL 6: ABYSSAL REALM 
When you spend at least 1 Sorcery Point as part of a 
Magic action or a Bonus Action on your turn, you can 
pull influence from the Abyss. When you do, you 
create a 10-foot Emanation originating from you, or 
you fill the Sphere of your Abyssal Rupture with 
magic from one of the following layers of the Abyss. 
If an effect requires a saving throw, the DC equals 
your spell save DC. 
 Gaping Maw’s Frenzy. Designate a direction that 
is horizontal to you. Each creature in the area that 
fails a Charisma saving throw must use as much of 
its movement as possible to move in that direction at 
the start of its next turn, taking the safest route. 
 Maze of Azzatar. Each creature in the area makes 
an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, you 
gain the benefits of the Invisible condition against 
the target until the start of your next turn. 
 Slime Pits’ Haze. Each creature in the area makes 
a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the 
target has your choice of the Charmed or Poisoned 
condition until the start of your next turn. 
LEVEL 14: ABYSSAL CONDUIT 
Your Abyssal powers reach their full potential. You 
gain the following benefits. 
 Rupture Expansion. The size of your Abyssal 
Rupture is now a 30-foot-radius Sphere, and the 
area is Difficult Terrain for your enemies. 
 Fiendish Servant. You always have the Summon 
Fiend spell prepared. When you cast the spell, you 
can modify it so that it doesn’t require 
Concentration. When you do so, the spell’s duration 
becomes 1 minute for that casting, and you must 
choose Demon when you summon the Fiend. 
 In addition, the Fiend has Advantage on attack 
rolls while within your Abyssal Rupture. 
LEVEL 18: ABYSSAL EXPLOSION 
You unleash the chaos of the Abyss. As a Magic 
action, you fill a 30-foot-radius Sphere with an 
explosion of Abyssal energy. Each creature in the 
Sphere makes a Constitution saving throw against 
your spell save DC. On a failed save, a creature takes 
8d6 Force damage if it isn’t a Fiend, and it has the 
Incapacitated condition until the start of your next 
turn. 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Long Rest, unless you spend 7 
Sorcery Points (no action required) to restore your 
use of it. 
  


=== PAGE 7 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 7 
FEATS 
This section presents eight new feats. 
ORIGIN FEATS 
These feats are in the Origin category. 
ATONER’S GRACE 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Disarming Mien. A creature’s Hostile attitude 
doesn’t impose Disadvantage on your Charisma 
(Persuasion) checks to influence that creature. 
 Parley. When you take the Disengage or Influence 
action, each creature of your choice within 5 feet of 
you has Advantage on the next ability check or 
saving throw it makes before the start of your next 
turn. 
RAISED BY CULTISTS 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Bloody Revelation. When you become Bloodied, 
you can take a Reaction to gain Heroic Inspiration. 
 Communal Caster. When an ally within 5 feet of 
you makes a Constitution saving throw to maintain 
Concentration, you can take a Reaction to give your 
ally Advantage on the save. 
TRAPPER 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Eye for Detail. You have Advantage on any 
Intelligence (Investigation) check you make as part 
of the Study action. 
 Swift Tracker. You don’t have Disadvantage on 
Wisdom (Perception or Survival) checks while 
traveling at a Fast pace, and you have Advantage on 
such checks while traveling at a Normal pace. 
 Trap Expert. You can take a Bonus Action, instead 
of a Utilize action, to set a Hunting Trap. When you 
set a Hunting Trap, you add your Proficiency Bonus 
to the DC of the saving throw to avoid the trap and 
the DC of the check to escape it. 
UNDERHANDED 
Origin Feat 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Elusive. Immediately after you roll Initiative, you 
can move up to 10 feet. 
 Fight Dirty. When a creature one size larger than 
you or smaller makes an Opportunity Attack against 
you and misses, you can take a Reaction to give that 
creature the Prone condition. You must have a free 
hand to use this Reaction. 
EPIC BOON FEATS 
These feats are in the Epic Boon category. 
BOON OF THE BANDIT KING 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score 
of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 
 Dastardly Charm. You have Advantage on 
Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) checks to pick a pocket. 
When you succeed on such a check, you can cause 
the target of your theft to willingly part with the 
item and have the Charmed condition for 1 minute 
or until it takes damage. Once you use this benefit, 
you can’t use it again until you finish a Short or Long 
Rest. 
 Uncatchable. You don’t provoke Opportunity 
Attacks when you move out of a creature’s reach. 
BOON OF THE CLEANSED HEART 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score 
of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 
 Cleanse Heart. You can cast Dispel Evil and Good 
without expending a spell slot. You can’t use the 
spell’s Dismissal special function when you cast it in 
this way. 
 Radiant Reflection. You have Immunity to 
Necrotic damage. When you would be subjected to 
Necrotic damage and don’t have the Incapacitated 
condition, you can deal 2d8 Radiant damage to each 
creature of your choice within a 10-foot Emanation 
originating from yourself. 
BOON OF THE HUNTER’S EYE 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score 
of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 
 Quick Capture. When you deal damage to a 
creature you intend to knock out rather than kill, if 
the target has 20 or fewer Hit Points after your 
damage is dealt, the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points 
instead. 
 Studied Hunter. When you roll Initiative, you can 
choose a creature you can see; you know whether 
that creature has any Immunities, Resistances, or 
Vulnerabilities, and if the creature has any, you 
know what they are. 


=== PAGE 8 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 8 
BOON OF UNWAVERING DEVOTION 
Epic Boon Feat (Prerequisite: Level 19+) 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Ability Score Increase. Increase one ability score 
of your choice by 1, to a maximum of 30. 
 Possession Immunity. You automatically succeed 
on saving throws to avoid or end possession. 
 See Through Illusions. Visual illusions appear 
transparent to you, and you automatically succeed 
on saving throws against them. 
 Undeniable Confidence. Immediately after a 
creature you can see succeeds on a Wisdom saving 
throw against an effect you created, you can take a 
Reaction to force that creature to reroll the save, and 
it must use the new roll. Once you use this benefit, 
you can’t use it again until you roll Initiative or finish 
a Short or Long Rest. 