

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2026 
MYSTIC SUBCLASSES 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material here 
uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents four new subclasses: 
• Monk (Warrior of the Mystic Arts) 
• Paladin (Oath of the Spellguard) 
• Rogue (Magic Stealer) 
• Warlock (Vestige Patron) 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. 
The options here are experimental and in draft form. 
They aren’t officially part of the game. Your feedback 
will help determine whether we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try out 
this material in play. To play with this material, you 
may either incorporate it into your campaign or run 
one or more special playtest sessions. For such a 
session, you may create an adventure of your own or 
use a short adventure from a source like Dragon 
Delves. 
 Power Level. The character options you read here 
might be more or less powerful than options in the 
2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable level 
before publication. This means an option could be 
more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback 
on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D 
Beyond. If we make this material official, it will be 
refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear 
in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way you 
can help shape the future of D&D! 
WARRIOR OF THE MYSTIC ARTS (MONK) 
Weave Martial and Mystic Arts 
Warriors of the Mystic Arts wield magic to 
supplement their martial skill. They harness their 
supernatural focus to enhance their magical and 
physical abilities. 
LEVEL 3: SPELLCASTING 
You have learned to cast spells. See the Player’s 
Handbook for the rules on spellcasting. The 
information below details how you use those rules 
as a Warrior of the Mystic Arts. 
 Cantrips. You know two cantrips of your choice 
from the Sorcerer spell list. Blade Ward and 
Thunderclap are recommended. Whenever you gain 
a Monk level, you can replace one of these cantrips 
with another cantrip of your choice from the 
Sorcerer spell list. 
 When you reach Monk level 10, you learn another 
Sorcerer cantrip of your choice. 
 Spell Slots. The Warrior of the Mystic Arts 
Spellcasting table shows how many spell slots you 
have to cast your level 1+ spells. You regain all 
expended slots when you finish a Long Rest.  
WARRIOR OF THE MYSTIC ARTS SPELLCASTING 
Monk 
Level 
Prepared 
Spells 
— Spell Slots per Spell Level—  
1 2 3 4 
3 3 2 —  —  —  
4 4 3 —  —  —  
5 4 3 —  —  —  
6 4 3 —  —  —  
7 5 4 2 —  —  
8 6 4 2 —  —  
9 6 4 2 —  —  
10 7 4 3 —  —  
11 8 4 3 —  —  
12 8 4 3 —  —  
13 9 4 3 2 —  
14 10 4 3 2 —  
15 10 4 3 2 —  
16 11 4 3 3 —  
17 11 4 3 3 —  
18 11 4 3 3 —  
19 12 4 3 3 1 
20 13 4 3 3 1 
 


=== PAGE 2 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
 Prepared Spells of Level 1+. You prepare the list 
of level 1+ spells that are available for you to cast 
with this feature. To start, choose three level 1 spells 
from the Sorcerer spell list. Jump, Magic Missile, and 
Shield are recommended. 
 The number of spells on your list increases as you 
gain Monk levels, as shown in the Prepared Spells 
column of the Warrior of the Mystic Arts Spellcasting 
table. Whenever that number increases, choose 
additional spells from the Sorcerer spell list until the 
number of spells on your list matches the number on 
the table. The chosen spells must be of a level for 
which you have spell slots. For example, if you’re a 
level 7 Monk, your list of prepared spells can include 
five Sorcerer spells of levels 1 and 2 in any 
combination. 
 Changing Your Prepared Spells. Whenever you 
gain a Monk level, you can replace one spell on your 
list with another Sorcerer spell for which you have 
spell slots. 
 Spellcasting Ability. Wisdom is your spellcasting 
ability for your Sorcerer spells. 
 Spellcasting Focus. You can use an Arcane Focus 
as a Spellcasting Focus for your Sorcerer spells. 
 Multiclassing. If you multiclass and have the 
Spellcasting feature from more than one class, add 
one third of your Monk levels (round down) to 
determine your available spell slots.  
LEVEL 6: MYSTIC FOCUS 
You keep your magical power and martial focus in 
perfect balance, allowing you to convert spell slots 
into Focus Points, or convert Focus Points into spell 
slots.  
 Converting Spell Slots to Focus Points. You can 
expend a spell slot to regain a number of expended 
Focus Points equal to the slot’s level (no action 
required). 
 Recovering Spell Slots. As a Bonus Action, you can 
transform unexpended Focus Points to recover one 
expended spell slot. The Recovering Spell Slots table 
shows the cost of recovering a spell slot of a given 
level, and it lists the minimum Monk level you must 
be to recover a slot. You can recover a spell slot no 
higher than level 4. 
RECOVERING SPELL SLOTS 
Spell Slot 
Level 
Focus Point Cost Min. Monk 
Level 
1 2 6 
2 3 7 
3 5 13 
4 6 19 
 
LEVEL 6: MYSTIC FIGHTING STYLE 
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you 
can replace one of the attacks with a casting of one 
of your Sorcerer cantrips that has a casting time of 
an action. 
LEVEL 11: CENTERED FOCUS 
Whenever you expend a Focus Point to use Flurry of 
Blows, Patient Defense, or Step of the Wind, you 
have Advantage on any saving throw you make to 
maintain Concentration until the start of your next 
turn. 
LEVEL 17: IMPROVED MYSTIC FIGHTING STYLE 
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you 
can replace two of the attacks with a casting of one 
of your level 1 or 2 Sorcerer spells that has a casting 
time of an action. 
  


=== PAGE 3 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
OATH OF THE SPELLGUARD (PALADIN) 
Protect Your Allies from Villainous Magic 
Paladins who take the Oath of the Spellguard are 
sworn to battle those who use magic to harm others. 
They often serve as bodyguards to upstanding 
mages, but their most important role is protecting 
allies from devastating magical attacks. Those who 
swear this oath ensure that villains who misuse 
magic are brought to justice. 
 These paladins share the following tenets: 
• Protect the innocent from wicked mages. 
• Prevent magic from falling into villains’ hands. 
• Protect mages who use magic honorably. 
LEVEL 3: GUARDIAN BOND 
As a Magic Action, you can expend one use of your 
Channel Divinity to forge a divine bond with a 
willing creature within 5 feet of yourself. The bond 
lasts for 1 hour or until you have the Unconscious 
condition. For the duration, while the bonded 
creature is within your reach and is hit by an attack 
roll, you can take a Reaction to add your Charisma 
modifier (minimum of +1) to that creature’s AC, 
possibly causing the attack to miss. 
 You can end your divine bond at any time (no 
action required). If you already have a divine bond 
when you forge a new one, the previous bond ends. 
LEVEL 3: OATH OF THE SPELLGUARD SPELLS 
The magic of your oath ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin level 
specified in the Oath of the Spellguard Spells table, 
you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 
OATH OF THE SPELLGUARD SPELLS 
Paladin Level Spells 
3 Detect Magic, Shield 
5 See Invisibility, Silence 
9 Counterspell, Dispel Magic 
13 Freedom of Movement, Otiluke’s 
Resilient Sphere 
17 Circle of Power, Hallow 
 
LEVEL 3: SPELLGUARD STRIKE 
When you see a creature within your reach casting a 
spell with Verbal, Somatic, or Material components, 
you can take a Reaction to make a melee attack with 
a weapon or an Unarmed Strike against that 
creature. 
LEVEL 7: AURA OF CONCENTRATION 
Your aura of protection fosters mental focus. You 
and your allies have Advantage on Constitution 
saving throws to maintain Concentration while in 
your Aura of Protection. 
LEVEL 15: SPELL-BREAKING BLADE 
Immediately after you hit a creature with your 
Spellguard Strike, you can cast Counterspell as part 
of the same Reaction. 
 When you cast Counterspell with a spell slot, that 
slot isn’t expended if the spell fails to stop a spell. 
LEVEL 20: ETERNAL SPELLGUARD 
As a Bonus Action, you can empower your Aura of 
Protection, granting the benefits below for 1 minute 
or until you end them (no action required). Once you 
use this feature, you can’t use it again until you finish 
a Long Rest. You can restore your use of this ability 
by expending a level 5 spell slot (no action required). 
 Bodyguard. While the target of your Guardian 
Bond is in the aura, that creature has Resistance to 
all damage. 
 Protection from Magic. You and your allies in the 
aura have Advantage on saving throws against 
spells. 
 Spell Ward. Spell attack rolls against you and your 
allies in the aura have Disadvantage. 
  


=== PAGE 4 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
MAGIC STEALER (ROGUE) 
Steal Magical Power to Empower Yourself 
While ordinary thieves are cutting purses and 
burgling homes, a Magic Stealer is after a much more 
valuable prize: magic. The Magic Stealer preys on 
spellcasters, repurposing their magic and eluding 
divination spells to take magical power at the point 
of a knife. 
LEVEL 3: EMPOWER SNEAK ATTACK 
Immediately after a creature you can see within 30 
feet of you casts a level 1+ spell, you can take a 
Reaction to absorb magical energy from the spell. 
When you do so, until the end of your next turn, the 
next time you hit with your Sneak Attack you deal 
extra Force damage. To determine the extra damage, 
roll a number of d6s equal to the spell’s level, and 
add them together. 
 You can take this Reaction a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when you 
finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 3: DRAIN MAGIC 
You can drain power from ongoing spells to recharge 
your allies’ magic. As a Magic Action, you can touch a 
willing creature and end one ongoing level 1 or level 
2 spell on it; the creature immediately recovers one 
expended spell slot of level 2 or lower (the target’s 
choice). 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t do so again 
until you finish a Short or Long Rest. 
LEVEL 9: MAGICAL SABOTAGE 
You gain the following Cunning Strike options. 
 Spell Susceptibility (Cost: 2d6). The target has 
Disadvantage on the next saving throw it makes 
against a spell until the start of your next turn.  
 Disrupt Spell (Cost: 3d6). The target’s magical 
acuity is disrupted until the start of your next turn. 
Whenever the target casts a spell during that time, it 
must succeed on an Intelligence saving throw or the 
spell dissipates with no effect, and the action, Bonus 
Action, or Reaction used to cast it is wasted. If that 
spell was cast with a spell slot, the slot isn’t 
expended. 
 Steal Resistance (Cost: 2d6). Choose one kind of 
damage. If the target has Resistance to that kind of 
damage, until the start of your next turn, the target 
loses that Resistance and you gain Resistance to that 
damage type. 
LEVEL 13: OCCULT SHROUD 
Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can cast the 
Nondetection spell, using Intelligence as your 
spellcasting ability. When you do so, you can target 
only yourself, and the duration increases to 24 
hours. 
LEVEL 13: IMPROVED DRAIN MAGIC 
You can now use Drain Magic as a Bonus Action. In 
addition, when you use Drain Magic, you can end one 
ongoing level 1, level 2, or level 3 spell on the target, 
and the target recovers one expended spell slot of 
level 3 or lower (the target’s choice). 
LEVEL 17: ELDRITCH IMPLOSION 
When you use Empower Sneak Attack, you can force 
the target to make a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 
plus your Dexterity modifier and Proficiency Bonus). 
On a failed save, the spell dissipates with no effect, 
and the target has the Stunned condition until the 
start of its next turn. 
  


=== PAGE 5 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
VESTIGE PATRON (WARLOCK) 
Wield the Remnants of a Dying God’s Power 
Your pact draws on the power of a dying god, a being 
once worshipped by countless followers but now 
abandoned and forgotten. This dying god, known as 
a vestige, might have been benevolent, evil, or 
strange and unknowable, but now it is driven to 
regain its former power. The vestige needs your help 
it is willing to share its remaining strength with you. 
LEVEL 3: VESTIGE COMPANION 
The vestige manifests, aiding you to do so and  
drawing strength from your pact. It uses the Vestige 
Companion stat block and is a Celestial, Fiend, or 
Undead (choose when you gain this feature). You 
determine what the vestige looks like, but regardless 
of its form, the vestige bears features indicating its 
supernatural origin. For example, you might decide 
your vestige is an oversize floating skull etched with 
sigils, a circle of glowing runes, or a constantly 
shifting abstract shape. The vestige is Friendly to 
you and your allies and obeys your commands. It 
vanishes if you die. 
 The Vestige in Combat. In combat, the vestige 
acts during your turn. It can move and use its 
Reaction on its own, but the only action it takes is 
the Dodge action unless you take a Bonus Action to 
command it to take an action in its stat block or 
some other action. You can also sacrifice one of your 
attacks when you take the Attack action to command 
the vestige to take the Vestige’s Strike action. If you 
have the Incapacitated condition, the vestige acts on 
its own and isn’t limited to the Dodge action. 
 Disappearance of the Vestige. When the vestige 
drops to 0 Hit Points, it disappears. You can spend 1 
minute performing a magic ceremony to manifest 
the vestige again; it reappears with its maximum Hit 
Points in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. 
As a Magic action, you can temporarily dismiss the 
vestige to a pocket dimension. As a Magic action 
while it is temporarily dismissed, you can cause the 
vestige to reappear in an unoccupied space within 
30 feet of you. Whenever the vestige drops to 0 Hit 
Points or disappears into the pocket dimension, it 
leaves behind in its space anything it was wearing or 
carrying. 
 Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can 
summon the vestige in a new form, which appears in 
an unoccupied space within 5 feet of you. You 
choose its appearance and whether it is a Celestial, 
Fiend, or Undead. If the vestige is already manifested 
from this feature, its form changes to the new one. 
VESTIGE COMPANION 
Small Celestial, Fiend, or Undead; Neutral 
AC 13 + your Charisma modifier 
HP 4 + four times your Warlock level (the vestige has a 
number of Hit Dice [d6s] equal to your Warlock level) 
Speed 5 Ft., Fly 30 ft. (hover)  
 MOD SAVE   MOD SAVE   MOD SAVE 
STR 1  −5 −5 DEX 14  +2 +2 CON 10  +0 +0 
INT 15  +2 +2 WIS 15  +2 +2 CHA 16  +3 +3 
Resistances Fire (Fiend only), Necrotic (Undead only), 
Radiant (Celestial only) 
Immunities Charmed, Frightened, Prone 
Senses Darkvision 60 ft.; Passive Perception 11 
Languages Speaks the languages you know 
CR None (XP 0; PB equals your Proficiency Bonus) 
TRAITS 
Pact Bond. Add your Proficiency Bonus to any ability 
check or saving throw the vestige makes. 
ACTIONS 
Vestige’s Strike. Melee or Ranged Attack Roll: Bonus 
equals your spell attack modifier, reach 5 ft. or range 60 
ft. Hit: 1d6 + 3 plus your Charisma modifier Fire (Fiend), 
Necrotic (Undead), or Radiant (Celestial) damage. 
BONUS ACTIONS 
Divine Power (1/Day). Your vestige manifests a remnant 
of its divine power in one of the following ways, based on 
its form: 
Cursed Invocation (Undead Only). The vestige places a 
curse on a creature you can see within 30 feet of the 
vestige for 1 minute. While cursed, the target has 
Disadvantage on attack rolls against you and the 
vestige. 
Fiendish Swap (Fiend Only). If you and the vestige are 
within 60 feet of each other, you both teleport, 
swapping places. 
Healing Touch (Celestial Only). The vestige touches 
another creature. The target regains Hit Points equal to 
2d8 plus your Charisma modifier and ends one 
condition on it: Blinded, Deafened, or Poisoned. 
LEVEL 3: VESTIGE SPELLS 
The magic of your Vestige Companion ensures you 
always have certain spells ready. Select one of the 
following Cleric Domains: Life, Light, Trickery, or 
War. The Domain Spells of your chosen Domain are 
Warlock spells for you. When you reach a Warlock 
level equal to a Cleric Level listed on the Domain 
Spells table for the Domain you have chosen, you 
thereafter always have the listed spells prepared. 
 For example, if you chose the War Domain for this 
feature, when you reach Warlock level 3, you would 
have the Guiding Bolt, Magic Weapon, Shield of Faith, 
and Spiritual Weapon spells prepared. 


=== PAGE 6 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 6 
LEVEL 6: VESTIGE RECOVERY 
Your Vestige Companion now regains its use of 
Divine Power whenever you finish a Short or Long 
Rest or when you use your Magical Cunning feature. 
LEVEL 10: AURA OF POWER 
Your Vestige Companion increases in magical 
strength. As a Magic Action, you can cause the 
vestige to manifest an aura in a 30-foot Emanation 
that originates from the vestige. The aura lasts a 
number of hours equal to your Charisma modifier or 
until the vestige disappears or is temporarily 
dismissed. You, the vestige, and your allies within 
the aura gain Resistance to Fire, Necrotic, and 
Radiant damage and have Immunity to the Charmed 
and Frightened conditions. Once you manifest this 
aura, you can’t do so again until you finish a Long 
Rest. 
 In addition, when you drop to 0 Hit Points while 
within the aura, you instead change your Hit Points 
to a number equal to your Warlock level plus your 
Charisma modifier. The vestige is then dismissed 
into a pocket dimension and can’t return until you 
finish a Long Rest.  
LEVEL 14: SEMBLANCE OF LIFE 
Your Vestige Companion continues to grow in 
strength, and with your assistance, it can briefly 
adopt a more powerful form. Depending on the 
vestige’s type, you can cast one of the following 
spells while the vestige is within 90 feet of you 
without expending a spell slot or needing Material 
components: Summon Celestial (Celestial vestige), 
Summon Fiend (Fiend vestige), or Summon Undead 
(Undead vestige). When you cast the spell with this 
feature, the vestige becomes the summoned 
creature. Its game statistics are replaced by the 
summoned creature’s stat block, the spell’s level is 
equal to half your Warlock level (round down; 
maximum level 9), and the spell’s duration is 1 
minute. When the spell ends, the vestige returns to 
its previous form. 
 Once you have cast the spell in this way, you can’t 
do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 