

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use.  v1.1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2026 
VILLAINOUS OPTIONS 2 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material here 
uses the rules in the Player’s Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents three new subclasses: 
• Barbarian (Path of Lament) 
• Monk (Warrior of Venom) 
• Warlock (Primordial Patron) 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and feedback. 
The options here are experimental and in draft form. 
They aren’t officially part of the game. Your feedback 
will help determine whether we adopt them as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try out 
this material in play. To play with this material, you 
may either incorporate it into your campaign or run 
one or more special playtest sessions. For such a 
session, you may create an adventure of your own or 
use a short adventure from a source like Dragon 
Delves. 
 Power Level. The character options you read here 
might be more or less powerful than options in the 
Player’s Handbook. If a design survives playtesting, we 
adjust its power to the desirable level before 
publication. This means an option could be more or 
less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us feedback 
on this material is in the survey we’ll release on D&D 
Beyond. If we make this material official, it will be 
refined based on your feedback, and then it will appear 
in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way you 
can help shape the future of D&D! 
PATH OF LAMENT (BARBARIAN) 
Transform Bitter Anguish into Supernatural Rage 
Barbarians who walk the Path of Lament hone their 
regrets into deadly weapons and channel their 
deepest sorrows into rageful action. Propelled by 
supernatural grief, their fury grants them gifts from 
beyond the grave.  
 A Barbarian may choose the Path of Lament, but 
more often the path is thrust on the Barbarian by 
unhappy accident. At the heart of the Barbarian’s 
rage are great trauma and unresolved grief—p ainful 
emotions fueled by haunting memories that rise to 
the surface during adrenaline-filled moments. You 
can roll on or choose a result from the Path of 
Lament Origins table to inspire the incident that 
forms the root of your despair. 
PATH OF LAMENT ORIGINS 
1d6 Your Rage Stems from the Time …  
1 A lost loved one rose as an undead monster. 
2 Enemies slew your animal companion. 
3 You (and you alone) escaped brutal captors. 
4 You found your family’s charred remains. 
5 Your decision led to a devastating shipwreck. 
6 Your elders banished you from your home. 
 
LEVEL 3: BANSHEE’S WAIL 
When you activate your Rage or as a Bonus Action 
while your Rage is active, you can let out a doleful 
wail. Each creature of your choice in a 30-foot 
Emanation originating from you makes a 
Constitution saving throw (DC 8 plus your 
Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bonus). On a 
failed save, a creature takes Psychic damage and has 
the Deafened condition for 1 minute. On a successful 
save, a creature takes half as much damage only. To 
determine the Psychic damage, roll a number of 
d12s equal to your Rage Damage bonus, and add 
them together. 
 Y ou can use this feature a number of times equal 
to your Constitution modifier (minimum of once). 
You regain all expended uses when you finish a Long 
Rest. You can also regain all uses by expending a use 
of your Rage (no action required). 
LEVEL 6: COMMUNE WITH THE DEAD 
You can cast the Speak with Dead spell but only as a 
Ritual. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for it. 


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use.  v1.1 
LEVEL 6: HORRIFYING STRIKE 
Once per turn when you hit a creature with a 
Strength-based attack roll while your Rage is active, 
you can attempt to horrify the target. The target 
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw (DC 8 plus 
your Constitution modifier and Proficiency Bonus) 
or have the Frightened condition until the start of 
your next turn. 
LEVEL 10: OTHERWORLDLY ANGUISH 
You draw power from a sorrow so deep it extends 
beyond the boundaries of the realm of the living. You 
gain the following benefits. 
 Deathly Wail. If a target fails its saving throw 
against your Banshee’s Wail and it has Hit Points 
equal to twice your Barbarian level or fewer, it drops 
to 0 Hit Points instead of taking damage. 
 Impenetrable Sorrow. You can’t be possessed. 
 Resistance. You have Resistance to Cold and 
Necrotic damage while your Rage is active. 
LEVEL 14: SORROW FORM 
When you activate your Rage, you can empower 
yourself with undeath. You gain the benefits below 
for 1 minute or until you drop to 0 Hit Points. Once 
you use this feature, you can’t do so again until you 
finish a Long Rest. 
 Immunities. You have Immunity to the Charmed 
and Frightened conditions. If you’re Charmed or 
Frightened when you empower yourself, the 
condition ends on you. In addition, you can’t gain 
Exhaustion levels. 
 Life-Draining Strike. When a creature fails its 
saving throw against your Horrifying Strike, the 
creature takes 2d10 Necrotic damage. You regain Hit 
Points equal to the Necrotic damage dealt. 
 Undead. Your creature type is Undead. 
  


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use.  v1.1 
WARRIOR OF VENOM (MONK) 
Channel the Cauldron of Your Own Toxicity 
Warriors of Venom pollute their internal reservoirs 
of power to become poison incarnate. Through years 
of focus and the study of poison in all its forms, these 
Monks learn to harness their own toxicity to impair 
and envenom foes. Contact with a Warrior of 
Venom— even the slightest touch or a single drop of 
blood—can be as deadly as a viper’s bite.  
LEVEL 3: ENVENOM WEAPON 
At the start of your turn, you can expend 1 Focus 
Point to apply a toxin produced from your blood to 
one Monk weapon that you’re holding. A creature 
that takes damage from the weapon is subjected to 
one of the following toxin effects (choose when you 
apply the toxin): 
Slowing Toxin. Until the start of your next turn, the 
target’s Speed is halved; it can’t take Reactions; 
and it can take either an action or a Bonus Action 
on its turn, not both. 
Venom. The target takes Poison damage equal to 
two rolls of your Martial Arts die. 
The toxin retains potency for 1 minute or until a 
creature takes damage from the weapon. 
LEVEL 3: POTENT ARSENAL 
You gain a Poisoner’s Kit, and you have proficiency 
with it. When creating a Basic Poison, you can do so 
over the course of 1 day (8 hours of work). 
Additionally, whenever you deal Poison damage 
with a Monk feature or a Monk weapon, you can 
change that damage type to Acid. 
LEVEL 6: TOXIC TOUCH 
As a Magic action, you can expend 1 Focus Point to 
apply a potent toxin to a creature you touch. The 
target makes a Constitution saving throw. On a failed 
save, the target has the Poisoned condition for 1 
minute. 
 While Poisoned, the target is affected by one of the 
following effects of your choice: 
Intoxicant. The target has the Charmed condition 
for the duration or until you or your allies deal 
damage to the target. 
Sedative. The creature falls asleep and has the 
Unconscious condition for the duration. Another 
creature can use an action to shake it awake and 
remove the condition. 
Truth Serum. The target can’t knowingly 
communicate a lie for the duration. 
LEVEL 11: TOXIN REFINER 
Your body can filter poison. You gain Immunity to 
Poison damage. Whenever you are subjected to 
Poison damage, your Envenom Weapon options each 
deal extra Poison damage equal to one roll of your 
Martial Arts die, and you can’t gain this benefit again 
until the end of your next turn. In addition, 
whenever you ingest a poison, you regain a number 
of Hit Points equal to one roll of your Martial Arts 
die. 
LEVEL 11: TOXIC BLOOD 
Enemies draw your toxic blood at their own peril. 
Whenever a creature hits you with a melee attack 
roll, the attacker takes 1d6 Poison damage. If you are 
Bloodied, the attacker instead takes Poison damage 
equal to one roll of your Martial Arts die. 
LEVEL 17: HALLUCINOGENIC BREATH 
When you take the Attack action on your turn, you 
can expend 2 Focus Points and replace one of your 
attacks with an exhalation of hallucinogenic vapors 
at one creature you can see within 30 feet. The 
target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a 
failed save, the target takes Poison damage equal to 
three rolls of your Martial Arts die and has the 
Frightened condition for 1 minute or until the target 
takes damage. While Frightened, the target takes the 
Dash action and moves away from you by the safest 
route on each of its turns unless there is nowhere to 
move. On a successful save, a creature takes half as 
much damage only.  


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use.  v1.1 
PRIMORDIAL PATRON (WARLOCK) 
Invoke Scions of Elemental Chaos 
Your pact draws on the Inner Planes, the realms of 
elemental forces and the building blocks of the 
multiverse. Warlocks of this pact act as heralds of 
ancient and destructive scions of air, earth, fire, and 
water— such as the Elemental Evils. These Warlocks 
prepare the way for their patrons’ eventual arrival 
on the Material Plane by creating elemental nodes, 
areas suffused with energy from the Elemental 
Planes. 
 When you choose this subclass, choose an element 
from the Primordial Patrons table, which suggests 
potential patrons and determines the damage type 
for certain subclass features. 
PRIMORDIAL PATRONS 
Element Example Patrons Damage Type 
Air Akadi, Yan-C-Bin Thunder 
Earth Ogrémoch, Grumbar Acid 
Fire Imix, Kossuth, Zaaman 
Rul 
Fire 
Water Istishia, Olhydra Cold 
 
The capricious nature of elemental alliances extends 
to your pact. You can change your chosen element—
and your patron—whenever you gain a level.  
LEVEL 3: ELEMENTAL NODE 
As a Magic action, you can create a 5-foot-radius 
Sphere of elemental magic centered on a point you 
can see within 60 feet of yourself. The magic of this 
elemental node resembles your chosen element. On 
later turns, you can take a Bonus Action to move the 
node up to 30 feet. 
 When the node appears, each creature other than 
you in the node makes a Dexterity saving throw 
against your spell save DC, taking 1d6 damage of 
your chosen element’s type on a failed save or half as 
much damage on a successful one. A creature also 
makes this save when the node moves into its space 
and when it enters the node or ends its turn there. A 
creature makes this save only once per turn. 
 The node lasts for 1 minute, until you dismiss it 
(no action required), or until you use this feature to 
create another node. Once you use this feature, you 
can’t use it again until you complete a Short or Long 
Rest unless you expend a Pact Magic spell slot (no 
action required) to restore your use of it. 
 The node’s damage increases by 1d6 when you 
reach Warlock levels 6 (2d6) and 14 (3d6). 
LEVEL 3: ELEMENTAL SPELLS 
The magic of your patron ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Warlock level 
specified in the Elemental Spells table, you 
thereafter always have the listed primordial spells 
prepared, along with the spells corresponding to 
your chosen element. 
LEVEL 6: ELEMENTAL HAVEN 
Your Elemental Node shields you from harm. You 
gain the following benefits. 
 Elemental Protection. While you’re within your 
node, you have a bonus to AC equal to your 
Charisma modifier (minimum of 1). 
 Elemental Teleport. As a Bonus Action, you can 
teleport into your node or the nearest unoccupied 
space within 5 feet of it. You can use this benefit a 
number of times equal to your Charisma modifier 
(minimum of once), and you regain all expended 
uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
 
ELEMENTAL SPELLS 
Warlock 
Level 
 
Primordial Spells 
 
Air Spells 
 
Earth Spells 
 
Fire Spells 
 
Water Spells 
3 Chromatic Orb, Darkvision Feather Fall, 
Shatter 
Entangle, Knock Burning Hands, 
Heat Metal 
Alter Self, Ice 
Knife 
5 Elemental Weapon Fly Plant Growth Fireball Water Walk 
7 Summon Elemental (the spirit’s 
element matches your chosen 
element) 
Freedom of 
Movement 
Vitriolic Sphere Wall of Fire Control Water 
9 Commune with Nature Steel Wind 
Strike 
Wall of Stone Flame Strike Cone of Cold 
 


=== PAGE 5 ===
 
©2026 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. v1.1 
LEVEL 10: PRIMEVAL PROTECTION 
You gain the following benefits. 
 Elemental Fortitude. You have Resistance to your 
chosen element’s damage type. Additionally, while 
within your Elemental Node, you have Immunity to 
that damage type. 
 Node Improvement. Your Elemental Node is now 
a 10-foot-radius Sphere. 
LEVEL 14: ELEMENTAL HARBINGER 
Your Elemental Node can usher in the mightiest of 
elementals, granting you the following benefits. 
 Elemental Vortex. Whenever you expend a Pact 
Magic spell slot while you’re within your Elemental 
Node, you can attempt to pull a creature into the 
node. One creature you choose within 30 feet of the 
node must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be 
pulled up to 15 feet toward the node’s center. 
 Node Improvement. Your Elemental Node now 
lasts for up to 1 hour. 
 Primordial Herald. While you’re within your 
node’s area, you can cast the Planar Ally spell 
without expending a spell slot. When you cast the 
spell in this way, you speak the name of your patron. 
Once you use this benefit, you can’t use it again until 
you finish 2d4 Long Rests. 
ELDRITCH INVOCATIONS 
The following two Eldritch Invocations complement 
the Primordial Patron. 
ELEMENTAL OVERFLOW 
Prerequisite: Level 5+ Warlock 
Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or 
Thunder. Whenever you cast a spell that deals the 
chosen damage type, you can cause elemental 
energy to wreathe you until the end of your next 
turn. For the duration, whenever a creature within 5 
feet of you hits you with a melee attack roll, that 
creature takes 1d4 damage of the chosen damage 
type. 
 Repeatable. You can gain this invocation more 
than once. Each time you do so, choose a different 
damage type. 
ELEMENTAL TRANSMUTATION 
Prerequisite: Level 2+ Warlock 
Choose a damage type: Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, or 
Thunder. Once per turn, whenever you deal damage 
of any of the above types, you can deal the chosen 
damage type instead. 