

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
ARCANE SUBCLASSES  
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material 
here uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s 
Handbook. 
LEARN MORE ON YOUTUBE 
To learn more about the design in this article, we 
invite you to view the videos about it on YouTube 
(www.youtube.com/DNDWizards). 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents nine subclasses: revised 
subclasses for the Cleric (Arcana Domain), 
Fighter (Arcane Archer), Warlock (Hexblade 
Patron), and Wizard (Conjurer, Enchanter, 
Necromancer, and Transmuter) and new 
subclasses for the Monk (Tattooed Warrior) and 
Sorcerer (Ancestral Sorcery). 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and 
feedback. The options here are experimental and 
in draft form. They aren’t officially part of the 
game. Your feedback will help determine whether 
we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try 
out this material in play. To play with this material, 
you may either incorporate it into your campaign 
or run one or more special playtest sessions. For 
such a session, you may create an adventure of 
your own or use a short adventure from a source 
like Quests from the Infinite Staircase. 
 Power Level. The character options you read 
here might be more or less powerful than options 
in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable 
level before publication. This means an option 
could be more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us 
feedback on this material is in the survey we’ll 
release on D&D Beyond. If we make this material 
official, it will be refined based on your feedback, 
and then it will appear in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way 
you can help shape the future of D&D! 
SUBCLASSES 
This section presents the following subclasses: 
Arcana Domain, Arcane Archer, Tattooed 
Warrior, Ancestral Sorcery, Hexblade Patron, 
Conjurer, Enchanter, Necromancer, and 
Transmuter. 
ARCANA DOMAIN (CLERIC) 
Blend Conviction with Arcane Power 
Magic suffuses the multiverse and fuels both 
destruction and creation. Clerics with this 
domain view magical knowledge not as power to 
be used in pursuit of personal ends, but as a gift 
they have the responsibility to share. 
 Gods associated with the Arcana Domain know 
the secrets and potential of magic intimately. 
These gods are often connected to knowledge, as 
learning and arcane power tend to go hand-in-
hand, or to secrecy or power. 
DESIGN NOTE: ARCANA DOMAIN UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the Sword Coast Adventurer’s Guide: 
• Arcane Domain Spells have been revised. 
• Arcane Initiate now gives you Expertise in the 
Arcana skill. 
• Modify Magic is a new feature that replaces 
Arcane Abjuration. 
• Dispelling Recovery (formerly named Spell 
Breaker) now uses Dispel Magic and also triggers 
when you remove a condition from a creature. 
• Arcane Mastery now lets you change the Wizard 
spells you choose. 
LEVEL 3: ARCANA DOMAIN SPELLS 
Your connection to this divine domain means 
you always have certain spells ready. When you 
reach a Cleric level specified in the Arcana 
Domain Spells table, you thereafter always have 
the listed spells prepared.  
  


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 2 
ARCANA DOMAIN SPELLS 
Cleric Level Prepared Spells 
3 Detect Magic, Magic Missile, Magic 
Weapon, Nystul’s Magic Aura 
5 Counterspell, Dispel Magic 
7 Arcane Eye, Leomund’s Secret Chest 
9 Bigby’s Hand, Teleportation Circle 
 
LEVEL 3: ARCANE INITIATE 
You gain the following benefits.  
 Arcane Knowledge. You gain proficiency in 
the Arcana skill if you don’t have it already. You 
also gain Expertise in the Arcana skill. 
 Cantrips. You learn two Wizard cantrips of 
your choice. Whenever you gain a Cleric level, 
you can replace one of these cantrips with 
another Wizard cantrip. 
LEVEL 3: MODIFY MAGIC 
You can use your Channel Divinity to alter your 
spells as you cast them. When you cast a spell, 
you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity 
and change the spell in one of the following ways 
(no action required). 
 Fortifying Spell. One target of the spell gains a 
number of Temporary Hit Points equal to 2d8 
plus your Cleric level. 
 Tenacious Spell. When you cast a spell that 
forces a creature to make a saving throw, choose 
one target of the spell you can see. Roll 1d6 and 
apply the number rolled as a penalty to the 
target’s saving throw.  
LEVEL 6: DISPELLING RECOVERY 
Immediately after you cast a spell with a spell 
slot that restores Hit Points to a creature or ends 
a condition on a creature, you can cast Dispel 
Magic on the creature as a Bonus Action without 
expending a spell slot. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Wisdom modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 17: ARCANE MASTERY 
You learn four Wizard spells, one from each of 
levels 6, 7, 8, and 9. You thereafter always have 
those spells prepared. Whenever you gain a 
Cleric level, you can replace one of these spells 
with another Wizard spell of the same level. 
ARCANE ARCHER (FIGHTER) 
Deploy Magical Effects through Enchanted 
Ammunition 
An Arcane Archer studies a unique elven method 
of archery that weaves magic into attacks to 
produce supernatural effects. The first Arcane 
Archers stood watch over their communities, 
keeping a keen eye out for dangers and using 
magic-infused arrows to defeat monsters and 
invaders. Over the centuries, other species have 
learned the elves’ mystical methods of blending 
arcane aptitude with archery and broadened 
their application to ranged weapons of many 
kinds while applying those talents to an 
adventuring life. 
DESIGN NOTE: ARCANE ARCHER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything: 
• Arcane Archer Lore now gives you proficiency in 
both the Arcana and Nature skills. 
• Arcane Shot has been redesigned. The feature 
now allows you to use any weapon with the 
Ammunition property. You now use the Arcane 
Shot Die it grants for extra damage in the options 
you select. 
• Ever Ready Shot is now available at a lower level. 
• Improved Shots, Powerful Shots, and Masterful 
Shots are new features that improve your Arcane 
Shot Die. They incorporate prior damage 
increases to your Arcane Shot options but spread 
the increases across more levels of play. 
LEVEL 3: ARCANE ARCHER LORE 
You learn magical theory and secrets of nature, 
granting you the following benefits.  
 Cantrip. You know either the Druidcraft or 
Prestidigitation cantrip. Intelligence is your 
spellcasting ability for it. 
 Skills. You gain proficiency in the Arcana and 
Nature skills. If you already have one of these 
proficiencies, you instead gain proficiency in a 
different skill of your choice (or with two other 
skills if you have both). 
LEVEL 3: ARCANE SHOT 
You learn to unleash special magical effects with 
some of your shots.  
 Arcane Shot Options. You learn two Arcane 
Shot options of your choice from the “Arcane 


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 3 
Shot Options” section later in this subclass’s 
description.  
 You learn an additional Arcane Shot option of 
your choice when you reach Fighter levels 7, 10, 
15, and 18. Each time you learn a new Arcane 
Shot option, you can also replace one option you 
know with a different one.  
 Using Arcane Shot. Once per turn when you 
make a ranged attack using a weapon with the 
Ammunition property, you can apply one of your 
Arcane Shot options to that attack. You decide to 
use the option when you hit a creature and deal 
damage to it unless the option doesn’t involve an 
attack roll. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once). You regain all expended uses when you 
finish a Short or Long Rest.  
 Arcane Shot Die. Arcane Shot options refer to 
your Arcane Shot Die. Your Arcane Shot Die is a 
d6.  
 Saving Throws. If an Arcane Shot option 
requires a saving throw, the DC equals 8 plus 
your Intelligence modifier plus your Proficiency 
Bonus.  
LEVEL 7: CURVING SHOT 
You learn how to direct an errant shot toward a 
new target. If you make an attack roll with a 
weapon with the Ammunition property and 
miss, as a Bonus Action immediately after the 
attack, you can make an extra attack with the 
same weapon against a different target that you 
can see, that is within the weapon’s long range, 
and that isn’t behind Total Cover. This extra 
attack doesn’t require ammunition.  
LEVEL 7: EVER READY SHOT 
When you roll Initiative and have no uses of 
Arcane Shot left, you regain one expended use of 
it.  
LEVEL 10: IMPROVED SHOTS 
Your Arcane Shot Die becomes a d8. 
LEVEL 15: POWERFUL SHOTS 
Your Arcane Shot Die becomes a d10. 
LEVEL 18: MASTERFUL SHOTS 
Your Arcane Shot Die becomes a d12. 
ARCANE SHOT OPTIONS 
The Arcane Shot options are presented here in 
alphabetical order. 
 Banishing Shot. Your magic temporarily 
sequesters your target in a harmless demiplane. 
The creature you hit takes additional Psychic 
damage equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die 
and must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or 
be banished. While banished, the creature has 
the Incapacitated condition and a Speed of 0. At 
the end of its next turn, the target reappears in 
the space it left or, if that space is occupied, in 
the nearest unoccupied space.  
 Beguiling Shot. Your magic causes the 
ammunition to temporarily beguile your target. 
The creature you hit takes additional Psychic 
damage equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot 
Die and must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw 
or have the Charmed condition until the start of 
your next turn, treating either you or one of your 
allies within 30 feet of the target (your choice) as 
the charmer. The Charmed condition ends early 
if the charmer attacks the target, deals damage 
to it, or forces it to make a saving throw. 
 Bursting Shot. You imbue your ammunition 
with explosive force energy. Immediately after 
you deal damage to the creature, your target and 
each creature within a 10-foot Emanation 
originating from the target takes Force damage 
equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot Die. 
 Enfeebling Shot. Your ammunition saps your 
target’s strength. The creature you hit takes 
additional Necrotic damage equal to two rolls of 
your Arcane Shot Die. The target must also 
succeed on a Constitution saving throw or have 
the Poisoned condition until the end of its next 
turn. Whenever a target Poisoned in this way 
hits with an attack roll, it subtracts an amount 
equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die from 
the total damage of that attack. 
 Grasping Shot. Your ammunition creates 
clutching brambles around your target. The 
creature you hit takes additional Slashing 
damage equal to one roll of your Arcane Shot Die 
and must succeed on a Strength saving throw or 
have the Restrained condition until the start of 
your next turn. The target or a creature within 
reach of it can take an action to make a Strength 
(Athletics) check against your Arcane Shot DC, 
removing the brambles and ending the 
Restrained condition on the target on a 
successful check. 


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 4 
 Piercing Shot. You give your ammunition an 
ethereal quality. When you use this option, you 
don’t make an attack roll for the attack. Instead, 
the ammunition shoots forward in a 30-foot Line 
that is 1 foot wide, originating from you, then 
vanishes. The Line ignores cover, as the 
ammunition phases through solid objects. Each 
creature in the Line must make a Dexterity 
saving throw. On a failed save, a creature takes 
damage as if it were hit plus additional Piercing 
damage equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot 
Die. On a successful save, a creature takes half as 
much damage.  
 Seeking Shot. You grant your ammunition the 
ability to seek out a target. When you use this 
option, you don’t make an attack roll for the 
attack. Instead, choose one creature you have 
seen in the last minute. The ammunition flies 
toward that creature, moving around corners if 
necessary and ignoring Half Cover and Three-
Quarters Cover. If the target is within your 
weapon’s long range, the target must make a 
Dexterity saving throw. Otherwise, the 
ammunition disappears after traveling as far as 
it can. On a failed save, the target takes damage 
as if it were hit plus additional Force damage 
equal to two rolls of your Arcane Shot Die, and 
you learn the target’s current location. On a 
successful save, the target takes half as much 
damage only. 
 Shadow Shot. Your magic occludes your foe’s 
vision with shadows. The creature you hit takes 
additional Psychic damage equal to one roll of 
your Arcane Shot Die, and it must succeed on a 
Wisdom saving throw or have the Blinded 
condition until the end of its next turn.  
TATTOOED WARRIOR (MONK) 
Enhance Martial Arts with Your Magic Tattoos 
Drawing from diverse body-marking traditions 
from across the multiverse, Tattooed Warriors 
can use arcane power imbued in their magic 
tattoos. These Monks gain tattoos as they grow 
in martial prowess and insight. Tattooed 
Warriors can cause their tattoos to change shape 
to access a versatile suite of physical and magical 
effects to overcome foes.  
LEVEL 3: MAGIC TATTOOS 
You gain the magic tattoos described by other 
features of this subclass. The tattoos appear on 
your body wherever you wish. Damage or injury 
doesn’t impair your magic tattoos’ function. A 
magic tattoo’s depiction can look like a brand, 
scarification, a birthmark, patterns of scale, or 
any other cosmetic alteration. 
 If a tattoo’s effect requires a saving throw, the 
DC equals 8 plus your Wisdom modifier plus 
your Proficiency Bonus. Your spellcasting ability 
for spells granted by a tattoo is Wisdom. 
 Whenever you finish a Long Rest, you can 
reshape one of your magic tattoos, changing the 
option you chose from one list to another option 
on the same list. 
LEVEL 3: BEAST TATTOOS  
You gain two animal tattoos. Choose two tattoos 
from the following options.  
 Bat. You know the Dancing Lights cantrip. 
When you expend 1 Focus Point to use Patient 
Defense or Step of the Wind, you gain Blindsight 
with a range of 10 feet for 1 minute. 
 Butterfly. You know the Light cantrip. You can 
expend 1 Focus Point to cast Silent Image 
without Material components. 
 Chameleon. You know the Minor Illusion 
cantrip. You can expend 1 Focus Point to cast 
Disguise Self. 
 Crane. You know the Guidance cantrip. When 
you miss a creature with an attack granted by 
your Flurry of Blows, you have Advantage on 
attack rolls for any remaining Unarmed Strikes 
with that use of Flurry of Blows. 
 Horse. You know the Message cantrip. You can 
expend 1 Focus Point to cast Longstrider without 
Material components. 
 Spider. You know the Mending cantrip. When 
you hit a creature with an attack granted by your 
Flurry of Blows, the creature has Disadvantage 
on its next attack roll before the start of your 
next turn. 
 Tortoise. You know the Spare the Dying 
cantrip. You can expend 1 Focus Point to cast 
False Life without Material components. 
LEVEL 6: CELESTIAL TATTOO 
You gain an additional magic tattoo depicting a 
celestial phenomenon. Choose a tattoo from the 
following options. 
 Comet.  You can expend 2 Focus Points to cast 
Find Traps. 


=== PAGE 5 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 5 
 Crescent Moon. You can expend 2 Focus 
Points to cast Misty Step. 
 Eclipse. You can expend 2 Focus Points to cast 
Invisibility without Material components. 
 Sunburst. You can expend 2 Focus Points to 
cast Lesser Restoration. 
LEVEL 11: NATURE TATTOO  
You gain an additional magic tattoo depicting a 
natural feature. Choose a tattoo from the 
following options. 
 Mountain. As a Magic action, you can expend 3 
Focus Points to gain Resistance to Acid damage 
and Advantage on Constitution saving throws for 
1 minute. 
 Storm. As a Magic action, you can expend 3 
Focus Points to gain Resistance to Lightning 
damage and Advantage on Dexterity saving 
throws for 1 minute. 
 Volcano. As a Magic action, you can expend 3 
Focus Points to gain Resistance to Fire damage 
and Advantage on Strength saving throws for 1 
minute. 
 Wave. As a Magic action, you can expend 3 
Focus Points to gain Resistance to Cold damage 
and Advantage on Wisdom saving throws for 1 
minute. 
LEVEL 17: MONSTER TATTOO  
You gain a magic tattoo depicting a supernatural 
creature. Choose a tattoo from the following 
options. 
 Beholder. You have a Fly Speed of 10 feet and 
can hover. Additionally, you can expend 3 Focus 
Points to cast Counterspell. 
 Blink Dog. When you expend a Focus Point to 
use Patient Defense, you can expend 3 Focus 
Points to cast Blink immediately after that Bonus 
Action. 
 Displacer Beast. When you expend a Focus 
Point to use Flurry of Blows or Step of the Wind, 
you can expend 2 Focus Points to cast Mirror 
Image immediately after that Bonus Action. 
 Guardian Naga. When you would be reduced 
to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, your Hit 
Points instead change to a number equal to twice 
your Monk level. Once you use this benefit, you 
can’t use it again until you finish a Long Rest.  
ANCESTRAL SORCERY (SORCERER) 
Bear the Power of a Spellcasting Lineage 
Your innate magic comes from a specific 
ancestor who wielded such awesome magical 
power that a fragment of their personality 
guides you. This ancestor grants you guidance 
and direction as you explore your innate magical 
abilities. You might be the ancestor’s sole 
surviving descendant, a reincarnation who bears 
an eerie resemblance to your ancestor, or a 
victim of a curse gained from handling your 
ancestor’s personal effects.  
LEVEL 3: ANCESTOR’S LORE 
You use your force of personality to channel 
your ancestor’s knowledge. When you make an 
Intelligence check, you gain a bonus to the check 
equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 
+1). 
 You also gain proficiency in one of these skills 
of your choice: Arcana, History, Investigation, 
Nature, or Religion.  
LEVEL 3: ANCESTRAL SPELLS 
When you reach the Sorcerer level specified in 
the Ancestral Spells table, you thereafter always 
have the listed spells prepared.  
LINEAGE SPELLS 
Sorcerer Level Spells 
3 Command, Guidance, Locate 
Object, Protection from Evil and 
Good, Resistance, Spiritual Weapon 
5 Magic Circle, Spirit Guardians  
7 Divination, Locate Creature 
9 Legend Lore, Yolande’s Regal 
Presence 
 
LEVEL 3: VISAGE OF THE ANCESTOR 
Choose the form your ancestor takes, which 
might resemble the ancestor in life or a symbolic 
creature. While your Innate Sorcery feature is 
active, this form appears in a spectral haze 
around you, and you have Advantage on any 
ability check you make as part of the Influence 
action. 
LEVEL 6: SUPERIOR SPELL DISRUPTION 
Your ancestor’s spellcasting mastery aids you in 
breaking spells. You always have Counterspell 
and Dispel Magic prepared.  


=== PAGE 6 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 6 
 While your Innate Sorcery feature is active, 
you can cast each spell without expending a spell 
slot. If you cast Counterspell in this way, the 
target has Disadvantage on its Constitution 
saving throw. If you cast Dispel Magic in this 
way, you have Advantage on your ability checks 
to end ongoing spells. Once you cast either spell 
without a spell slot, you must finish a Long Rest 
before you can cast the spell in this way again. 
LEVEL 14: ANCESTRAL MAJESTY 
Your ancestor’s visage evokes awe or dread. 
While your Innate Sorcery feature is active, you 
are surrounded by a magical aura in a 5-foot 
Emanation. Whenever a creature you can see 
enters the Emanation or ends its turn there, you 
can force that creature to make a Charisma 
saving throw. On a failed save, the target has the 
Prone condition or has the Frightened condition 
until the end of your next turn (your choice). A 
creature makes this save only once per turn.  
LEVEL 14: STEADY SPELLCASTER 
Your deep connection with your ancestor 
steadies you. Taking damage can’t break your 
Concentration on Sorcerer spells.  
LEVEL 18: ANCESTOR’S WARD 
Your ancestor’s protection redirects harmful 
magic away from you. While your Innate Sorcery 
feature is active, you gain Advantage on saving 
throws against spells. Once during your use of 
Innate Sorcery, when you fail a saving throw 
against a spell, you can choose to succeed 
instead. 
HEXBLADE PATRON (WARLOCK) 
Forge a Pact with a Cursed Blade 
You’ve made a pact with a sentient magic 
weapon and the cursed forces contained within 
its blade. Such a weapon could be the sword 
sheathed at your side, or it could be a 
manifestation of an infamous magic weapon like 
Blackrazor or the Sword of Kas projecting its 
power to further its legend. To those willing to 
follow this weapon’s whims, these inscrutable 
patrons offer the power to bestow malignant 
curses, deliver punishing blows, and bolster the 
wielder.  
DESIGN NOTE: HEXBLADE PATRON UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
latest appearance in Unearthed Arcana: 
• Hexblade Spells have been revised. 
• Hexblade’s Curse has returned as a feature in its 
own right but can also loop through spells that 
place a curse on a creature, such as Bestow Curse 
and Hex. Hungering Hex has been moved to this 
level, and Accursed Shield is a new feature. 
• Unyielding Will is a new feature that grants you 
benefits when maintaining Concentration on 
spells. 
• Malign Brutality is a new feature that gives you 
additional benefits. Hindering Curse (formerly 
the Stymieing Mark maneuver) has been moved 
here. 
• Armor of Hexes no longer has limited uses and 
scales with your Warlock level. 
• Masterful Hex now increases the power and 
usability of the updated Hexblade’s Curse 
feature. 
LEVEL 3: HEXBLADE SPELLS 
The magic of your patron ensures you always 
have certain spells ready; when you reach a 
Warlock level specified in the Hexblade Spells 
table, you thereafter always have the listed 
spells prepared. 
HEXBLADE SPELLS 
Warlock Level Spells 
3 Arcane Vigor, Hex, Shield, 
Wrathful Smite 
5 Bestow Curse, Conjure Barrage 
7 Freedom of Movement, Staggering 
Smite 
9 Animate Objects, Steel Wind Strike 
 
LEVEL 3: HEXBLADE’S CURSE  
Your patron grants you the power to curse and 
hinder your foes. As a Bonus Action, choose one 
creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself. 
The target is cursed for 1 minute, during which 
you gain the benefits below. The curse ends early 
if you use this feature again, if you dismiss it (no 
action required), or die. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Charisma modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. When you cast a spell 
using a spell slot that curses a target, you can use 


=== PAGE 7 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 7 
your Hexblade’s Curse as a part of casting that 
spell instead of taking a Bonus Action. When you 
do so, the target of the spell is the target of your 
Hexblade’s Curse, and your Hexblade’s Curse’s 
duration is either 1 minute or the spell’s 
duration, whichever is longer. 
 Hungering Hex. When the target cursed by 
your Hexblade’s Curse drops to 0 Hit Points, you 
regain Hit Points equal to 1d8 plus your 
Charisma modifier.  
 Accursed Shield. While you aren’t wearing 
armor or wielding a Shield, you gain a +2 bonus 
to AC while you are within10 feet of the target 
cursed by your Hexblade’s Curse.  
LEVEL 3: UNYIELDING WILL 
When you succeed on a saving throw to maintain 
Concentration, each creature of your choice in a 
10-foot Emanation originating from you takes 
2d6 Necrotic damage. Once you use this benefit, 
you can’t do so again until the start of your next 
turn. 
 In addition, when you fail a saving throw to 
maintain Concentration, you can choose to 
succeed instead, and you gain a number of 
Temporary Hit Points equal to 1d10 plus your 
Warlock level. Once you use this feature, you 
can’t do so again until you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 6: MALIGN BRUTALITY 
Your patron’s might furthers your bloodthirst, 
granting you the following benefits. 
 Harrowing Hex. After you cast a level 1+ spell 
that has a casting time of an action, you can 
make one attack with a weapon as a Bonus 
Action. 
 Hindering Curse. When you hit the target 
cursed by your Hexblade’s Curse with an attack 
roll, the target has Disadvantage on the next 
saving throw it makes before the start of your 
next turn. 
 Inescapable Hex. When the target of your 
Hexblade’s Curse ends its turn 30 feet or further 
from you, you can move up to your Speed 
straight toward the target.  
LEVEL 10: ARMOR OF HEXES 
When you take damage from the target cursed 
by your Hexblade’s Curse, you can take a 
Reaction to reduce the damage taken by an 
amount equal to your Warlock level.  
LEVEL 14: MASTERFUL HEX 
The power of your Hexblade’s Curse increases, 
granting the following benefits. 
 Accursed Critical. Any attack roll you make 
against the target cursed by your Hexblade’s 
Curse scores a Critical Hit on a roll of a 19 or 20 
on the d20. 
 Explosive Hex. When you deal damage to the 
target cursed by your Hexblade’s Curse, you can 
cause your curse to explode with sinister energy. 
The target and each creature of your choice in a 
30-foot Emanation originating from the target 
take 3d6 Necrotic, Psychic, or Radiant damage 
(your choice), and their Speed is reduced by 10 
feet until the start of your next turn. Once you 
use this benefit, you can’t use it again until you 
finish a Long Rest unless you expend a Pact 
Magic slot (no action required) to restore your 
use of it.  
 Hex Restoration. You regain one expended 
use of Hexblade’s Curse when you finish a Short 
Rest or use your Magical Cunning feature. 
CONJURER (WIZARD) 
Step Across Space and Call Creatures from Thin 
Air 
You consider distance and matter to be flexible 
guidelines rather than physical laws. Conjurers 
harness the power of magic that moves 
creatures instantly through space and summons 
creatures to fight on their behalf.  
DESIGN NOTE: CONJURER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the 2014 Player’s Handbook: 
• Benign Transposition is now available at a lower 
level, and the new Distant Transposition and 
Quick Teleportation features improve it. 
• Conjuration Savant now gives you free 
Conjuration spells to add to your spellbook. 
• Durable Summons is now available at a lower 
level, and the Temporary Hit Points it grants are 
based on your Wizard level. 
  


=== PAGE 8 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 8 
LEVEL 3: BENIGN TRANSPOSITION 
As a Magic action, you teleport up to 30 feet to 
an unoccupied space that you can see. 
Alternatively, you can choose a space within 
range that is occupied by a Medium or smaller 
creature. If that creature is willing, you both 
teleport, swapping places. 
 Once you use this feature, you can’t use it again 
until you finish a Long Rest. You can also restore 
your use of it by expending a level 2+ spell slot 
(no action required).  
LEVEL 3: CONJURATION SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Conjuration 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.  
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Conjuration school to your 
spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be of a 
level for which you have spell slots.  
LEVEL 6: DISTANT TRANSPOSITION 
The range of your Benign Transposition feature 
increases to 60 feet. Additionally, you regain 
your expended use of it when you finish a Short 
or Long Rest.  
 LEVEL 6: DURABLE SUMMONS 
When you cast a Conjuration spell to summon or 
create another creature using a spell slot, that 
creature gains Temporary Hit Points equal to 
twice your Wizard level when it first appears. 
LEVEL 10: FOCUSED CONJURATION 
Taking damage can’t break your Concentration 
on Conjuration spells. 
LEVEL 14: QUICK TRANSPOSITION 
You can use Benign Transposition as a Bonus 
Action.  
 You can also use Benign Transposition as a 
Reaction when a creature you can see makes an 
attack roll against you, but only to swap places 
with a willing creature. The creature that swaps 
places with you becomes the target of that attack 
instead. 
ENCHANTER (WIZARD) 
Entrance and Beguile Others 
Your magic clouds or captivates minds. Some 
Enchanters use their abilities to encourage peace 
and soften cruelty, while others use their mind-
altering magic for selfish ends. Many Enchanters 
fall somewhere in between. 
DESIGN NOTE: ENCHANTER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the 2014 Player’s Handbook: 
• Enchantment Savant now gives you free 
Enchantment spells to add to your spellbook. 
• Enchanting Talker and Vexing Movement are 
new features that replace Hypnotic Gaze, giving 
the Wizard new options to use in and out of 
combat. 
• Reflecting Charm replaces the former Instinctive 
Charm feature; instead of compelling an attacker 
to choose a new target, the feature now reliably 
reduces the damage you take and might harm 
the attacker. 
• Bolstering Belief is a new feature to aid yourself 
and allies in many situations. 
LEVEL 3: ENCHANTING TALKER 
Whenever you make a Charisma check, you gain 
a bonus to the check equal to your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum of +1). 
 You also gain proficiency in one of these skills 
of your choice: Deception, Intimidation, or 
Persuasion. 
LEVEL 3: ENCHANTMENT SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Enchantment 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.  
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Enchantment school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots.  
  


=== PAGE 9 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 9 
LEVEL 3: VEXING MOVEMENT 
Immediately after you cast an Enchantment spell 
using an action and a spell slot, you can take 
both the Disengage and Dash actions as a Bonus 
Action. 
 You can use this Bonus Action a number of 
times equal to your Intelligence modifier 
(minimum of once). You regain all expended 
uses when you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 6: REFLECTING CHARM 
When a creature within 30 feet of you that you 
can see hits you with an attack roll, you can take 
a Reaction to reduce the damage you take by half 
(round down), and you can force the attacker to 
make a Wisdom saving throw against your spell 
save DC. On a failed save, the attacker takes 
Psychic damage equal to half your Wizard level 
plus your Intelligence modifier. Once you use 
this Reaction, you can’t do so again until you 
finish a Long Rest. You can also restore your use 
of it by expending a level 2+ spell slot (no action 
required). 
LEVEL 10: SPLIT ENCHANTMENT 
When you cast an Enchantment spell, such as 
Charm Person, that can be cast with a higher-
level spell slot to target an additional creature, 
increase the spell’s effective level by 1. 
LEVEL 14: BOLSTERING BELIEF 
Your enchantments fortify your allies’ bodies 
and minds. You always have Power Word Fortify 
prepared. With this feature, you can cast the 
spell without expending a spell slot, and each 
target of the spell has Advantage on saving 
throws to avoid or end the Charmed and 
Frightened conditions while it has Temporary 
Hit Points granted by this spell. 
 Once you cast the spell with this feature, you 
can’t do so in this way again until you finish a 
Long Rest. 
NECROMANCER (WIZARD) 
Command the Powers of Death and Undeath 
You explore the cosmic forces of life, death, and 
undeath. As a Necromancer, you learn to 
manipulate the energy that animates all 
creatures. As you progress, you learn to use 
magic to drain the life force from a creature, 
transforming its vital energy into magical power. 
Many see Necromancers as menacing or 
villainous, though not all Necromancers are evil. 
Nevertheless, the manipulation of life and death 
is considered taboo in many societies. 
DESIGN NOTE: NECROMANCER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the 2014 Player’s Handbook: 
• Necromancy Savant now gives you free 
Necromancy spells to add to your spellbook. 
• Necromancy Spellbook is a new feature that 
incorporates a redesigned version of the prior 
Grim Harvest feature. 
• Grave Power, Undead Secrets, and Death’s 
Master are new features. 
• Undead Thralls has been redesigned to utilize 
the Summon Undead spell. 
LEVEL 3: NECROMANCY SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the Necromancy 
school, each of which must be no higher than 
level 2, and add them to your spellbook for free.  
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Necromancy school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots.  
LEVEL 3: NECROMANCY SPELLBOOK 
Secrets of necromancy magic in your spellbook 
grant you additional powers. You gain the 
following benefits.  
 Necrotic Resistance. You have Resistance to 
Necrotic damage.  
 Grim Harvest. When you cast a Necromancy 
spell using a spell slot, choose yourself or a 
creature you can see within 30 feet of yourself to 
gain a number of Temporary Hit Points equal to 
the level of the spell slot plus your Intelligence 
modifier (minimum 1 Temporary Hit Point). 
LEVEL 6: GRAVE POWER 
You have discovered more necromantic insights 
and inscribed them into your spellbook. While 
holding your spellbook, you gain the following 
benefits. 
 Grave Resilience. When you use Arcane 
Recovery, your Exhaustion level, if any, 
decreases by 1.  
 Overwhelming Necrosis. Damage from your 
Wizard spells and Wizard features ignores 
Resistance to Necrotic damage.  


=== PAGE 10 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 10 
LEVEL 6: UNDEAD THRALLS 
You always have Summon Undead prepared and 
can cast it once without expending a spell slot.  
 When you cast Summon Undead without a spell 
slot, you can regain Hit Points equal to half the 
summoned creature’s total Hit Points, but doing 
so halves the creature’s Hit Points. Once you cast 
the spell without a spell slot, you must finish a 
Long Rest before you can cast the spell in this 
way again. 
LEVEL 10: UNDEAD SECRETS 
You have learned more secrets about the 
nuances of life and death. When you finish a 
Long Rest, you can expend a level 4+ spell slot to 
protect yourself from death. Until you finish a 
Long Rest, the next time you would drop to 0 Hit 
Points, your Hit Points instead change to a 
number equal to ten times the spell slot 
expended. 
 In addition, immediately after you take 
damage and are Bloodied after taking that 
damage but not killed outright, you can take a 
Reaction and teleport to an unoccupied space up 
to 60 feet from yourself, and each creature 
within 10 feet of the space you left takes 2d10 
Necrotic damage. 
LEVEL 14: DEATH’S MASTER 
Abstruse rituals within your spellbook allow you 
mastery over forces of death. While holding your 
spellbook, you gain the following benefits. 
 Bolster Undead. As a Bonus Action, choose 
any number of Undead you have created or 
summoned with a Necromancy spell that are 
within 60 feet of yourself. Those Undead each 
gain Temporary Hit Points equal to your Wizard 
level. Once an Undead gains Temporary Hit 
Points from this feature, it can’t gain them in this 
way again for the next 24 hours. 
 Harvest Power. When you use Grim Harvest, 
the creature that gains Temporary Hit Points 
gains one of the following benefits of your 
choice, which lasts until the end of the target’s 
next turn: 
• The target has Advantage on attack rolls. 
• The target has Advantage on the next saving 
throw it makes. 
TRANSMUTER (WIZARD) 
Transform Energy and Matter 
You study spells that modify energy and matter. 
To you, the world is not a fixed thing, but 
eminently mutable. Your magic gives you the 
tools to become a smith on reality’s forge. 
 Some Transmuters are tinkerers and 
pranksters. Others pursue their magical studies 
with deadly seriousness, seeking the power of 
the gods to make and destroy worlds. 
DESIGN NOTE: TRANSMUTER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in the 2014 Player’s Handbook: 
• Transmutation Savant now gives you free 
Transmutation spells to add to your spellbook. 
• Transmuter’s Stone is now available at a lower 
level. You create the stone when you finish a 
Long Rest. 
• Wondrous Enhancement and Split 
Transmutation are new features. 
• Potent Stone is a new feature that gives you 
more options with your transmuter’s stone. 
• Master Transmuter is revised; its Panacea choice 
now restores Hit Points and can remove a curse. 
LEVEL 3: TRANSMUTATION SAVANT 
Choose two Wizard spells from the 
Transmutation school, each of which must be no 
higher than level 2, and add them to your 
spellbook for free.  
 In addition, whenever you gain access to a new 
level of spell slots in this class, you can add one 
Wizard spell from the Transmutation school to 
your spellbook for free. The chosen spell must be 
of a level for which you have spell slots.  
LEVEL 3: TRANSMUTER’S STONE 
When you finish a Long Rest, you can create a 
magic pebble called a transmuter’s stone that 
lasts until you use this feature again. A creature 
with the stone in its possession gains a benefit 
from one of the following options, which you 
choose when you create the stone. You can 
change the stone’s benefit when you cast a 
Transmutation spell using a spell slot.  
 Darkvision. The bearer gains Darkvision with 
a range of 60 feet or increases the range of its 
Darkvision by 60 feet.  
 Speed. The bearer’s Speed increases by 10 
feet. 


=== PAGE 11 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC 11 
 Durability. The bearer gains proficiency in 
Constitution saving throws. 
 Resistance. The bearer gains Resistance to 
Acid, Cold, Fire, Lightning, Poison, or Thunder 
damage (your choice each time you choose this 
benefit). 
LEVEL 3: WONDROUS ENHANCEMENT  
You always have Enhance Ability prepared and 
can cast it once without a spell slot. You regain 
the ability to cast it in this way when you finish a 
Long Rest.  
 Targets of your Enhance Ability also have 
Advantage on saving throws using the chosen 
ability. 
LEVEL 6: SPLIT TRANSMUTATION 
When you cast a Transmutation spell, such as 
Fly, that can be cast with a higher-level spell slot 
to target an additional creature, increase the 
spell’s effective level by 1. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Intelligence modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 
LEVEL 10: POTENT STONE 
Your transmuter’s stone is more versatile. You 
choose up to two options when you create your 
transmuter’s stone. You can choose each option 
other than Resistance only once. If you choose 
Resistance twice, you must choose different 
damage types. You can change either or both 
benefits when you cast a Transmutation spell 
using a spell slot. 
LEVEL 14: MASTER TRANSMUTER 
As a Magic action, you can consume the reserve 
of transmutation magic stored in your 
transmuter’s stone to choose one of the 
following benefits. After using your transmuter’s 
stone in this way, it crumbles to dust.  
 Panacea. The bearer regains a number of Hit 
Points equal to twice your Wizard level and ends 
a curse, including the target’s Attunement to a 
cursed item.  
 Restore Life. You cast Raise Dead without a 
spell slot, using the stone in place of the 
normally required Material components. 
 Restore Youth. The bearer permanently 
appears 3d10 years younger, to a minimum of 
young adulthood. 
 
 