

=== PAGE 1 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 1 
UNEARTHED ARCANA 2025 
SUBCLASSES UPDATE 
This playtest document is part of a series of 
Unearthed Arcana articles that present material 
designed for upcoming products. The material 
here uses the rules in the 2024 Player’s 
Handbook. 
WHAT’S INSIDE 
This document presents five subclasses: revised 
subclasses for the Barbarian (Path of the 
Spiritual Guardian and Path of the Storm 
Herald), Fighter (Cavalier), Monk (Warrior of 
Intoxication), and Paladin (Oathbreaker). 
THIS IS PLAYTEST MATERIAL 
This article is presented for playtesting and 
feedback. The options here are experimental and 
in draft form. They aren’t officially part of the 
game. Your feedback will help determine whether 
we adopt it as official. 
 How to Playtest This UA. We invite you to try 
out this material in play. To play with this material, 
you may either incorporate it into your campaign 
or run one or more special playtest sessions. For 
such a session, you may create an adventure of 
your own or use a short adventure from a source 
like Quests from the Infinite Staircase. 
 Power Level. The character options you read 
here might be more or less powerful than options 
in the 2024 Player’s Handbook. If a design survives 
playtesting, we adjust its power to the desirable 
level before publication. This means an option 
could be more or less powerful in its final form. 
 Feedback. The best way for you to give us 
feedback on this material is in the survey we’ll 
release on D&D Beyond. If we make this material 
official, it will be refined based on your feedback, 
and then it will appear in a D&D book. 
 Providing feedback on this document is one way 
you can help shape the future of D&D! 
SUBCLASSES 
This section presents the following subclasses: 
Path of the Spiritual Guardian, Path of the Storm 
Herald, Cavalier, Warrior of Intoxication, and 
Oathbreaker. 
PATH OF THE SPIRITUAL GUARDIAN 
(BARBARIAN) 
Call on the Spirits for Combat Aid 
Barbarians who walk the Path of the Spiritual 
Guardian call upon spirits—whether bestial 
spirits of nature, spirits of departed ancestors, or 
spirits of raw elemental power—to guide and 
protect them. When these Barbarians rage, they 
contact the realm of the spirits and call on them 
for aid. 
DESIGN NOTE: PATH OF THE SPIRITUAL GUARDIAN 
UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass 
(formerly Path of the Ancestral Guardian) since its 
last appearance in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything: 
• Spiritual Protectors (formerly Ancestral 
Protectors) has been redesigned. The feature 
now splits the effects of the original feature, 
along with new effects, as options when you hit a 
creature while your Rage is active. 
• Spirit Shield now scales with your Rage Damage 
bonus. 
• Vengeful Spirits (formerly Vengeful Ancestors) is 
a new feature that allows you to make an 
additional attack when you roll an 18 or higher 
on an attack roll. 
LEVEL 3: SPIRITUAL PROTECTORS 
Your Rage summons spectral warriors to your 
aid. While your Rage is active, when you hit a 
creature with a weapon or an Unarmed Strike, it 
becomes the target of the spirits, which cause 
one of the following effects of your choice.  
 Distract. Until the start of your next turn, the 
target has Disadvantage attack rolls against 
targets other than you or another Barbarian who 
has this feature. 
 Protect. Until the end of the target’s next turn, 
the next time it hits a creature other than you 
with an attack roll, that creature has Resistance 
to the damage dealt by the attack. 
 Strike. The target takes an extra 1d6 damage, 
which can be Acid, Cold, Fire, Force, Lightning, or 
Thunder damage (your choice). 


=== PAGE 2 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 2 
LEVEL 6: SPIRIT SHIELD 
Your guardian spirits can provide supernatural 
protection to those you defend. While your Rage 
is active, when another creature you can see 
within 30 feet of you takes damage, you can take 
a Reaction to reduce that damage. To determine 
the amount the damage is reduced by, roll a 
number of d6s equal to your Rage Damage 
bonus, and add them together. 
LEVEL 10: CONSULT THE SPIRITS 
You gain the ability to consult with your 
guardian spirits. When you do so, you cast the 
Augury or Clairvoyance spell, without expending 
a spell slot or needing Material components. 
Rather than creating a spherical sensor, this use 
of Clairvoyance invisibly summons one of your 
guardian spirits to the chosen location. Wisdom 
is your spellcasting ability for these spells. 
 After you cast either spell in this way, you can’t 
use this feature again until you finish a Short or 
Long Rest. 
LEVEL 14: VENGEFUL SPIRITS 
When you make an attack roll with a Melee 
weapon as part of the Attack action and roll 18–
20 on the d20, you can make one additional 
attack roll with the same weapon as part of that 
action. Once you use this feature, you can’t do so 
again until the start of your next turn. 
PATH OF THE STORM HERALD 
(BARBARIAN) 
Wield the Fury of the Storm 
Barbarians who follow the Path of the Storm 
Herald learn to harness their Rage into a mantle 
of primal magic that swirls around them like a 
storm. When in their Rage, these Barbarians tap 
into the elemental forces of nature to create 
powerful magical effects. 
DESIGN NOTE: PATH OF THE STORM HERALD UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything: 
• Storm Aura now scales with your Rage Damage 
bonus. In addition, Tundra has been redesigned 
to reduce a creature’s damage instead of 
applying Temporary Hit Points. 
• Raging Storm has each environment redesigned. 
Desert now makes a creature that failed the 
saving throw start burning. Sea can now chain 
the lightning bolt to another creature. Tundra 
now deals Cold damage and halves a creature’s 
Speed. 
LEVEL 3: STORM AURA 
Whenever you activate your Rage, choose 
Desert, Sea, or Tundra. You extend an aura in a 
10-foot Emanation originating from yourself for 
the duration of your Rage. 
 Your aura has an effect that activates when 
you enter your Rage, and you can activate the 
effect again on each of your turns as a Bonus 
Action. Your aura’s effect depends on the chosen 
environment, as detailed below. 
 If your aura’s effect requires a saving throw, 
the DC equals 8 plus  your Proficiency bonus 
plus your Constitution modifier. 
 Desert. When this effect is activated, roll a 
number of d4s equal to your Rage Damage 
bonus, and add them together. Each creature in 
the aura must succeed on a Dexterity saving 
throw or take Fire damage equal to the number 
rolled. You can choose one creature you can see 
in your aura to automatically succeed on this 
saving throw. 
 Sea. When this effect is activated, roll a 
number of d6s equal to your Rage Damage 
bonus, and add them together. You can then hurl 
a bolt of lightning at one other creature you can 
see within your aura. The target makes a 
Dexterity saving throw, taking Lightning damage 
equal to the number rolled on a failed save, or 
half as much damage on a successful one.  
 Tundra. When this effect is activated, roll a 
number of d4s equal to your Rage Damage 
bonus, and add them together. You can choose 
one other creature you can see within your aura 
to harry with icy spirits. The target must succeed 
on a Strength saving throw or it subtracts the 
number rolled from the next damage roll it 
makes before the start of your next turn. 
LEVEL 6: STORM SOUL 
The storm grants you benefits even when your 
aura isn’t active. The benefits are based on the 
environment you chose for your Storm Aura the 
last time you entered your Rage. 
 Desert. You gain Resistance to Fire damage. As 
a Magic action, you can touch a flammable object 
that isn’t being worn or carried by anyone else 
fand cause the object to start burning. 


=== PAGE 3 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 3 
 Sea. You gain Resistance to Lightning damage, 
and you can breathe underwater. You also gain a 
Swim Speed equal to your Speed. 
 Tundra. You gain Resistance to Cold damage. 
As a Magic action, you can touch water and turn 
a 5-foot Cube of it into ice, which melts after 1 
minute. This action fails if a creature is in the 
Cube. 
LEVEL 10: SHIELDING STORM 
You can use your mastery of the storm to protect 
others. Each creature of your choice within your 
Storm Aura has the damage Resistance you have 
from the Storm Soul feature. 
LEVEL 14: RAGING STORM 
The power of the storm you channel grows 
mightier, lashing out at your foes. The effect is 
based on the environment you choose for your 
Storm Aura. 
 Desert. Once per turn, when a creature you 
can see fails its saving throw against your Storm 
Aura effect, you can cause it to start burning for 
1 minute or until your Rage ends. A burning 
creature takes an extra 1d4 Fire damage (2d4 
Fire damage total) at the start of each of its 
turns. 
 Sea. Whether the target fails or succeeds on its 
saving throw against your Storm Aura effect, a 
bolt of lightning leaps from the target to another 
target of your choice, which must be within 30 
feet of the first target. The new target makes the 
same Dexterity saving throw as the first target. 
 Tundra. Once per turn, when a creature you 
can see fails its saving throw against your Storm 
Aura effect, you can cause it to take 2d4 Cold 
damage and its Speed is halved until the end of 
its next turn. 
CAVALIER (FIGHTER) 
Defend Your Allies on Foot or from a Mount 
Cavaliers excel at mounted combat and guard 
those in their charge, often protecting their 
superiors and the weak. A Cavalier is equally at 
home leading a cavalry charge or exchanging 
repartees at a state dinner. 
DESIGN NOTE: CAVALIER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
appearance in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything: 
• Unwavering Mark no longer has limited uses. 
• Ferocious Charger has been redesigned to give a 
burst of speed during the first round of each 
combat. 
LEVEL 3: BONUS PROFICIENCY 
You gain proficiency in one the following skills of 
your choice: Animal Handling, History, Insight, 
Performance, or Persuasion. Alternatively, you 
learn one language of your choice. 
LEVEL 3: BORN TO THE SADDLE 
You have Advantage on saving throws made to 
avoid falling off your mount. If you fall off your 
mount and descend no more than 10 feet, you 
can land on your feet if you don’t have the 
Incapacitated condition. 
 In addition, mounting or dismounting a 
creature costs you only 5 feet of movement 
rather than half your Speed. 
LEVEL 3: UNWAVERING MARK 
You can menace your foes, foiling their attacks 
and punishing them for harming others. When 
you hit a creature with a Melee weapon, you can 
mark the creature until the end of your next 
turn. This effect ends early if you have the 
Incapacitated condition, you die, or someone 
else marks the creature. 
 While it is within 5 feet of you, a creature 
marked by you has Disadvantage on attack rolls 
against creatures other than you. 
 In addition, if a creature marked by you hits a 
creature other than you with an attack roll, you 
have Advantage on attack rolls against the 
marked creature until the end of your next turn. 
LEVEL 7: WARDING MANEUVER 
You learn to fend off strikes directed at you, your 
mount, or other creatures nearby. If you or a 
creature you can see within 5 feet of you is hit by 
an attack roll, you can roll 1d8 as a Reaction if 
you’re wielding a Melee weapon or a Shield. Roll 
the die, and add the number rolled to the target’s 
AC against the triggering attack. If the attack still 
hits, the target has Resistance against the 
attack’s damage. 
 You can use this feature a number of times 
equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum of 
once), and you regain all expended uses when 
you finish a Long Rest. 


=== PAGE 4 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 4 
LEVEL 10: HOLD THE LINE 
Creatures provoke an Opportunity Attack from 
you when they move 5 feet or more while within 
your reach. When you hit a creature with an 
Opportunity Attack, the target’s Speed becomes 
0 until the end of the current turn. 
LEVEL 15: FEROCIOUS CHARGER 
During the first round of each combat, you and 
your mount’s Speed increases by 10 feet, and 
your movement doesn’t provoke Opportunity 
Attacks for that round. When you move within 5 
feet of a creature this round, that creature must 
succeed on a Strength saving throw (DC 8 plus 
your Strength modifier and Proficiency Bonus) 
or you either push it 5 feet away or cause it to 
have the Prone condition. A creature makes this 
save only once during a turn. 
LEVEL 18: VIGILANT DEFENDER 
In combat, you get a special Reaction that you 
can take once on every creature’s turn except 
your turn. You can take this Reaction only to 
make an Opportunity Attack, and you can’t take 
it on the same turn that you take your normal 
Reaction. 
WARRIOR OF INTOXICATION (MONK) 
Drink Mystic Brews to Overwhelm and Confound 
Foes 
Warriors of Intoxication move with the jerky, 
unpredictable movements typical of someone 
who is intoxicated. These Monks sway on 
unsteady feet to appear incompetent and then 
prove themselves frustrating to engage. Their 
apparently erratic stumbles conceal a carefully 
executed dance of blocks, parries, advances, 
attacks, and retreats. 
 Warriors of Intoxication often enjoy playing 
the fool to bring gladness to the downtrodden or 
to teach humility to the arrogant, but these 
Monks are maddening, masterful foes in battle. 
DESIGN NOTE: WARRIOR OF INTOXICATION UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass 
(formerly Way of the Drunken Master) since its last 
appearance in Xanathar’s Guide to Everything: 
• Mystic Brew is a new feature that lets the Monk 
create magical brews that they can drink to gain 
long-lasting benefits. 
• Master Brewer is a new feature that replaces 
Drunkard’s Luck. The feature adds additional 
beverage options to Mystic Brew. 
LEVEL 3: BONUS PROFICIENCIES 
You gain proficiency in the Performance skill, or 
if you already have it, you gain proficiency in one 
skill of your choice from the skills available to 
Monks at level 1. You also gain proficiency with 
Brewer’s Supplies if you don’t already have it. 
LEVEL 3: DRUNKEN TECHNIQUE 
You twist and turn quickly as part of your Flurry 
of Blows. Whenever you use Flurry of Blows, 
your Speed increases by 10 feet until the end of 
the current turn and your movement during that 
time doesn’t provoke Opportunity Attacks. 
LEVEL 6: TIPSY SWAY 
You can move in sudden, swaying ways. You gain 
the following benefits. 
Leap to Your Feet. When you have the Prone 
condition, you can stand up by spending 5 feet 
of movement, rather than half your Speed. 
Redirect Attack. When a creature misses you 
with a melee attack roll, you can spend 1 Focus 
Point as a Reaction to cause that attack to hit 
one creature of your choice, other than the 
attacker, that you can see within 5 feet of 
yourself. 
LEVEL 6: MYSTIC BREW 
Whenever you finish a Short or Long Rest while 
holding Brewer’s Supplies, you can use that tool 
to magically produce one magical beverage, 
chosen from the following options: Cinnamon 
Dragon, Heavenly Spirit, or Refreshing Dip. The 
beverage appears in a bottle or cask, and the 
bottle vanishes when the beverage is drunk or 
poured out. If any beverage remains when you 
finish a Short or Long Rest, the beverage and its 
container vanish.  
 Drinking a Magical Beverage. Only you can 
gain the benefit of drinking the beverage. You 
must drink at least a pint of the beverage before 
gaining its benefit. You can spend 1 minute 
drinking a pint of the beverage. You then gain 
the benefits of the beverage for 1 hour, as 
described below. 
  


=== PAGE 5 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 5 
Cinnamon Dragon. You can take a Magic action 
to exhale toxic flames in a 30-foot Cone. Each 
creature makes a Dexterity saving throw (DC 8 
plus your Wisdom modifier and Proficiency 
Bonus). On a failed save, a creature takes Fire 
damage equal to four rolls of your Martial Arts 
die and has the Poisoned condition until the 
end of its next turn. On a successful save, a 
creature takes half as much damage only. 
Heavenly Spirit. You gain Resistance to Psychic 
and Radiant damage. 
Refreshing Dip. Whenever you regain Hit 
Points, you regain additional Hit Points equal 
to a roll of your Martial Arts die. 
 Enhancing a Magical Beverage. When you 
create a magical beverage, you can expend 1 
Focus Point. When you do so, the benefit’s 
duration extends to 8 hours. 
LEVEL 11: MASTER BREWER 
You learn more complex flavors. The following 
beverages are added to your Mystic Brew 
options. 
Blue Lightning. Whenever you take a Reaction 
that isn’t making an Opportunity Attack or 
casting a spell, you can make one Unarmed 
Strike as part of that Reaction. 
Drunkard’s Luck. You gain Heroic Inspiration if 
you don’t already have it. In addition, you can 
give yourself Heroic Inspiration when you roll 
Initiative without it. 
LEVEL 17: INTOXICATED FRENZY 
You make an overwhelming number of attacks 
against a group of enemies. When you use Flurry 
of Blows, you can make up to three additional 
Unarmed Strikes with it (up to a total of six 
Unarmed Strike), provided that each strike 
targets a different creature this turn. 
OATHBREAKER (PALADIN) 
Obtain Great Power at Any Cost 
The power of a Paladin’s oath is so great that it 
holds a distorted power even when it is violated. 
When a Paladin betrays the tenets of their oath 
because of corruption, pride, or thirst for power, 
they lose the blessing granted by their original 
oath but sometimes take on the sinister blessing 
of the Oathbreaker in its place. Oathbreakers use 
fear and overwhelming power to achieve their 
goals. While many Oathbreakers are beyond 
redemption, some Paladins bend this oath to 
achieve a great and noble deed to atone for their 
past evils. 
 At the DM’s discretion, a Paladin of any level 
who violates the tenets of their oath can lose the 
benefits granted by their original subclass and 
gain the features of the Oathbreaker subclass 
instead. Alternatively, a Paladin can choose this 
subclass at level 3 based on the character’s 
backstory of falling from grace. 
 These Paladins often share the following 
tenets: 
• Fear is a tool in the hands of the powerful. 
• Strive for power at any cost. 
• Do what must be done, but never lose sight of 
your goal. 
DESIGN NOTE: OATHBREAKER UPDATES 
Here are the main updates in this subclass since its 
last appearance in the 2014 Dungeon Master’s 
Guide: 
• Conjure Undead (formerly Control Undead) now 
lets you briefly summon Undead to aid you. 
• Dreadful Aspect now loops through the Divine 
Smite spell. 
• Oathbreaker Spells has new spells. 
• Aura of Hate now adds its effect to your Aura of 
Protection. The aura now benefits only Fiends 
and Undead that are your allies. 
• Dread Lord now imbues your Aura of Protection 
and can be recharged by expending a level 5 
spell slot. 
LEVEL 3: CONJURE UNDEAD 
As a Bonus Action, you can expend one use of 
your Channel Divinity to summon a number of 
Undead equal to half your Charisma modifier 
(round up; minimum of one Undead summoned). 
Each Undead appears in an unoccupied space 
you can see within 30 feet of you and is a type of 
your choice: Skeleton or Zombie (see appendix 
B of the Player’s Handbook for the stat blocks). 
The Undead are under your control for 1 minute, 
after which they dissolve into ash. 
 Each Undead is an ally to you and your allies. 
In combat, the Undead shares your Initiative 
count, but it takes its turn immediately after 
yours. It obeys your verbal commands (no action 
required by you). If you don’t issue any, it takes 
the Dodge action and uses its movement to avoid 
danger. 


=== PAGE 6 ===
©2025 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Permission granted to print and photocopy this page for personal use. 6 
LEVEL 3: DREADFUL ASPECT 
Immediately after you cast Divine Smite, you can 
expend one use of your Channel Divinity to 
channel a burst of magical menace. Each 
creature of your choice in a 30-foot Emanation 
originating from you must succeed on a Wisdom 
saving throw or have the Frightened condition 
for 1 minute. A Frightened creature repeats the 
save at the end of each of its turns, ending the 
effect on itself on a success. 
LEVEL 3: OATHBREAKER SPELLS 
The magic of your oath ensures you always have 
certain spells ready; when you reach a Paladin 
level specified in the Oathbreaker Spells table, 
you thereafter always have the listed spells 
prepared. 
OATHBREAKER SPELLS 
Paladin Level Spells 
3 Hellish Rebuke, Witch Bolt 
5 Crown of Madness, Darkness 
9 Fear, Summon Undead 
13 Blight, Phantasmal Killer 
17 Contagion, Steel Wind Strike 
 
LEVEL 7: AURA OF HATE 
When you, as well as any Fiend or Undead in 
your Aura of Protection that is an ally, hits a 
creature with a melee attack, that attack deals 
extra Necrotic damage equal to your Charisma 
modifier. 
LEVEL 15: SUPERNATURAL RESISTANCE 
You gain Resistance to Bludgeoning, Piercing, 
and Slashing damage. 
LEVEL 20: DREAD LORD 
As a Bonus Action, you can imbue your Aura of 
Protection with unholy gloom, granting the 
benefits below for 10 minutes or until you end 
them (no action required). Once you use this 
feature, you can’t use it again until you finish a 
Long Rest. You can also restore your use of it by 
expending a level 5 spell slot (no action 
required). 
 Darkness. Magical Darkness fills your Aura of 
Protection. You and allies in your Aura of 
Protection can see within this magical Darkness. 
 Fear. Whenever a creature with the 
Frightened condition starts its turn in your Aura 
of Protection, that creature takes 4d10 Psychic 
damage. 
 Shadow Strike. As a Bonus Action, you can 
make a melee spell attack, shaping the gloom 
exuding from you into a blade that targets one 
creature in your Aura of Protection. On a hit, the 
attack deals Necrotic damage equal to 3d10 plus 
your Charisma modifier. 